The Minerals Council South Africa congratulates the top 100 Global Inspirational Women in Mining and recognises South African women featured in the 2018 Edition. Women in Mining presented the 2018 Edition of the “100 Global Inspirational Women in Mining”, sponsored by BMO Capital Markets. The “100 Global Inspirational Women in Mining” aims to showcase the range of female talent within the global mining industry and to identify inspirational role models to encourage future generations of women to consider mining as a career choice. This year a record 642 nominations were received from both women and men from around the world and across the different facets that make up the mining industry, highlighting the very real contribution women are making on a daily basis. “We celebrate the 100 inspirational women and particularly recognise Thuthula Balfour, as our head of health, and Deshnee Naidoo as a board representative, for being featured in the top 100," comments Minerals Council South Africa CEO, Roger Baxter. The 100 women featured in the 2018 Edition were selected by a panel of judges for the way they have persevered in the face of adversity, found solutions to challenges, and empowered others by being a voice and role model for diversity and inclusion. “This book is a living history of women working in mining and through their stories we learn how they have addressed challenges, empowered others and forged rewarding and important careers in the sector," explains Carole Cable, chairman of Women in Mining. The key themes emanating from the stories are the acknowledgement that much more needs to be done to improve diversity and inclusion, the challenge of attracting and retaining women, and their optimism that the industry has the ability to change further. "We hope this book, and others like it from Women in Mining groups around the world, will strengthen the voices of women in mining to change attitudes toward diversity and inclusion. "There is an incredible talent base out there – current and future – so our challenge is to break the models that don’t work and dare to increase the pace of change," Cable continues.