Australia-based innovation programme for the global resources sector, Unearthed and Investing in African Mining Indaba have partnered to offer four African emerging technology businesses the opportunity to pitch their innovative industry solutions at the world’s largest mining investment conference on Wednesday 6 February 2019 in Cape Town, South Africa. Startups Unearthed Africa is an online competition aimed at raising the profile of African hardware or software companies across the global mining sector, with applications open to any business across the continent that has a prototype, product or service that can impact industry. Companies do not need to have worked on a mining project before, they just need to have exciting technology solutions that can make a difference. The four successful applicants will access the valuable prospect to present to approximately 750 investors and dealmakers, leaders from over 220 mining companies, and 34 government ministers. In addition to awarding four pitching spots, each startup will receive one full complimentary pass to Mining Indaba that runs for four days from Monday 4 to Thursday 7 February 2019. The top ten applicants will also receive media coverage profiling their business, to get the word out across Unearthed’s global network. Unearthed industry lead for crowdsourcing, Holly Bridgwater, will moderate the startup session showcasing these upcoming transformative mining technologies. “I am excited that we have the opportunity to share some of the amazing tech being built across Africa with an audience of potential customers and investors at one of the world’s largest mining conferences,” Bridgwater says. Investing in African Mining Indaba MD Alex Grose says that the mining industry has been perceived as an old-fashioned sector, but it’s not the case as technology has rapidly been changing the way the sector operates. “From AI (artificial intelligence) and Big Data to new satellite technologies and more efficient production, mining companies are embracing innovation. We are very proud and excited to be running this fantastic initiative together with Unearthed, set to bring new ideas to one of the world’s oldest industries as well as provide four African tech startups with exposure to the world's largest mining companies,” says Grose. Geoscientific imagery knowledge extraction platform, Imago, founder Michael Evans, who pitched at Mining Indaba 2018, says he was thrilled to have been able to pitch Imago. “Africa is a big market for us. We really appreciated the chance to meet so many potential clients so quickly. The conference has a great reputation for investment and technology. It was the perfect way to show investors how Imago is changing mining,” Evans says. To apply for Startups Unearthed Africa, visit https://unearthed.link/SUA and submit your application before 30 November 2018.