JSE/NYSE-listed Sibanye-Stillwater advises that acts of violence continue to be experienced at its South African gold operations. This is due to the Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union (AMCU) strike action, which commenced on the evening shift on Wednesday, 21 November 2018. The situation at the Beatrix and Driefontein operations, in particular, remains tense, with striking workers causing damage to company property and restricting access to the company’s operating mine sites. These violent actions are in direct contravention of the interdict granted by the Labour Court to Sibanye-Stillwater on Thursday, 22 November 2018 and as a result are in contempt of court. Sibanye-Stillwater respects the right of AMCU members to strike, and upholds the right of employees who wish to work to do so. By their unlawful actions, striking employees are preventing other employees from exercising their right to work, thereby inflicting financial hardship on employees who do not wish to strike. In order to ensure that the rights of all workers are respected and to avoid further violence, management continues to engage with union leadership with a view to signing a “Peace Pact”. Sibanye-Stillwater management regards the safety and well-being of all its employees as its top priority, and will take appropriate measures to ensure that the interdict granted by the Labour Court is honoured while pursuing its efforts to secure a Peace Pact among all stakeholders. On Wednesday, 14 November 2018, a three-year wage agreement was signed between Sibanye-Stillwater and the other representative unions; the National Union of Mineworkers (the NUM), Solidarity and UASA. Despite numerous attempts by Sibanye-Stillwater to reach a fair and reasonable outcome with AMCU representatives since the negotiations began in June, but despite having participated in the construct of the final offer, AMCU declined to accept the offer. The average basic wages for category 4-8 employees have increased by more than 65% since Sibanye-Stillwater was unbundled from Gold Fields in 2013. This is significantly above inflation and represents a very real improvement in the standard of living of our employees. The current wage agreement reached with NUM, Solidarity and UASA is again well in excess of inflation, but takes the longer term sustainability of the gold operations into consideration.