As a responsible corporate citizen, Barloworld is supportive of South Africa's efforts to transform the racial profile of the economy. The highlights of it new (Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment (BBBEE) implementation includes: Shareholders are advised that the company has entered into agreements aimed at implementing transformative Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment which encompasses: Barloworld is committed to improving its B-BBEE status. All South African business units require an improvement of their black ownership to remain relevant and competitive. As a responsible corporate citizen, the company is supportive of South Africa's efforts to transform the racial profile of the economy. It intends to conclude the B-BBEE Transaction which includes its staff, communities and the broader black public as participants. The proposed B-BBEE Transaction meets the following key objectives for Barloworld: Broad-based participation: inclusion of all employees, black public and the Foundation whose mandate will be poverty alleviation, education and youth development and advocacy; and Sustainable: The Properties ensure predictability of cash flows and the Specific Issue of Shares to the Foundation at Par Value, will ensure that the B-BBEE Transaction creates a permanent empowerment legacy. The B-BBEE Transaction will confer B-BBEE ownership to Barloworld equivalent to 14% in terms of the BEE Codes, which will increase B-BBEE ownership to 48% (excluding mandated investments) while limiting dilution to Shareholders to only 3%. Certain of the Properties are currently owned by subsidiaries of Barloworld and other parties. Pursuant to the B-BBEE Transaction and prior to the Implementation Date, the Initial Sellers will sell and transfer certain of the Properties to the company. Pursuant to the internal restructure, the company (as lessor) will conclude 10-year lease agreements with Barloworld Logistics Africa Barloworld South Africa. The Barloworld Internal Restructure does not require Shareholder approval.