New opportunities in the Zambian mining sector: Africa Prospect Development Zambia launched in London at Mines and Money being held from 26 - 29 November 2018. Africa Prospect Development Zambia (APDZ) is a Lusaka based company designed to promote high quality, authentic and appealing Zambian based investment opportunities to the global mining and investment community. The company was formally launched at Mines and Money London by Honorable Fredson Yamba, the Secretary to the Treasury in the Ministry of Finance Zambia and the Zambian high commissioner to the UK and Ireland, Honorable Chikonde. From the private sector, Hannam and Partners hosted the APDZ Zambian delegation during their visit to Mines and Money, London. APDZ was founded by Sam Mulligan in 2016. The company has spent the last 14 months cultivating and developing authentic and genuine opportunities in the Zambian mining sector. While APDZ is a private entity, the company works closely with the selected Zambian government bodies with the purpose of attracting high quality investment to specific projects and initiatives in the Zambian mining sector. All APDZ projects are rigorously audited and authenticated by a MMK Legal of Zambia and BDO Zambia prior to release and launch to potential investors and partners. APDZ is currently promoting two highly prospective green field copper cobalt projects in Zambia’s North Western province. The company is not restricted to green field project and is also developing opportunities in the Zambian Emerald, Gold and Bauxite sectors. These initiatives will be launched in early 2018. “At Mines and Money London we have received very positive feedback from current and potential investors in the Zambian mining sector. "We believe that it is essential for the future economic growth of Zambia that we attract new, high quality, ethical and responsible investment to the Zambian mining sector. "APDZ are now in discussions with a section of leading finance and mining groups to achieve just that and we feel there are exciting times ahead” said Sam Mulligan, Founder of APDZ on conclusion of Mines and Money London.