MOD Resources has reported potentially significant widths of visible copper mineralisation at very shallow depth, from the first two widely spaced diamond core drill holes at the large T23 Dome, in the Kalahari copper belt in Botswana. Southern Africa - T23 Dome is the first new target to be drilled in the northern part of the regional scale T20 exploration project. T23 Dome is located ~15 km west of the T4 prospect where MOD Resources intersected very promising copper mineralisation in shallow RC drilling in February 2016, including a notable high grade intersection of 2 m @ 6.1% Cu and 111 g/t Ag from 101 m depth. Drilling stopped at T4 once T3 was discovered in March 2016. “The immediate success of finding copper near surface at T23 Dome confirms the prospectivity of this exciting new target," says MOD Resources MD, Julian Hanna. "It also opens up the wider potential of the extensive T20 exploration project, dominated
by a wide, ~60 km long zone of copper and zinc soil anomalies which are as yet undrilled. “The early results from T23 Dome and previous drilling success at T4 in early 2016 suggest this could be another copper rich region, in addition to the prolific T3 region 100 km to the east. "MOD Resources and our 30% JV partner Metal Tiger have built a very experienced team, developed an effective strategy and applied the best exploration techniques to find copper across our huge landholding along the copper belt," Hanna adds. The T20 exploration project occurs in the Central Structural Corridor (CSC) where several new copper discoveries have been made within three years. These include the 100% owned flagship 60Mt T3 copper project, the A4 and A1 Domes which have both delivered outstanding recent copper intersections, the high
grade T1 resource and the T4 prospect. These occur along ~130 km of the 200 km length of the CSC licences held by the joint venture between MOD Resources and AIM-listed Metal Tiger. The first two exploratory holes at T23 Dome (MO-T23-001D and MO-T23-002D) intersected several zones of secondary copper in fractures and narrow veins starting just below surface. Primary copper sulphides including disseminated chalcocite, chalcopyrite and bornite were intersected from >50 m depth within typical D’Kar Formation sediments, above a red sandstone interpreted to be Ngwako Pan Formation. Similar to the T3, A4 and A1 Domes, the T23 Dome is covered by a surface layer of sand and calcrete, which has masked the copper mineralisation from previous discovery. Airborne magnetic data suggests T23 Dome is a large, structurally complex domal feature within a major regional shear zone, which may extend at least to T4. The coincidence of all these factors makes T23 Dome a very compelling target. Assays are awaited from MO-T23-001D and MO-T23-002D to confirm the visible intersections and drilling is in progress to test specific structural targets interpreted from magnetic and EM data within this large, previously undrilled dome. Drilling is also planned at the nearby T4 prospect starting as soon as possible.