Morocco-focused potash development company, Emmerson, has appointed mining engineering firm, Golder Associates, to oversee the delivery of a scoping study on the company’s 100%-owned Khemisset potash project in Northern Morocco. Morocco – The scoping study and associated work programme is fully funded following Emmerson’s re-admission fundraise of £6 million on 4 June 2018 and is expected to be delivered by the end of Q1 2019. The company will now be looking to appointment an engineering firm with specialist expertise in the processing of potash minerals to work alongside Golder Associates. Emmerson will also be appointing additional contractors to commence a drilling programme in the near-term, with a view to delivering on the twin objective of a) unlocking the upside potential of the already significant JORC-compliant inferred resource of 311 Mt at 10.2% K20 and b) upgrading portions of the resource to the “indicated” category. “We have hit the ground running since our re-listing on the London Stock Exchange and are excited to be working with a firm with the credibility and expertise of Golder Associates to deliver the Khemisset scoping study, and we believe they will add considerable value to the process,” says Emmerson CEO Hayden Locke. “With the wheels in motion and the funds in place to deliver following our £6 million raise, we are working to confirm, from a high level, the compelling technical and economic potential of the Khemisset project by early 2019. “We continue to be excited by the potential for Khemisset to be a low-capex, high margin potash project, and look forward to demonstrating this to the market, says Locke. The Khemisset potash project is located in Northern Morocco approximately 90 km from the capital city, Rabat, and the planned bulk port of Kenitra Atlantique and 150 km from the port of Mohammedia. It is close to the significant regional town of Khemisset and benefits from outstanding infrastructure including a network of toll roads, and electricity distribution grid and enjoys a supportive local government. The project has significant exploration potential with an accelerated development pathway targeting a low capex, high margin mine. Khemisset is ideally located to benefit from the expected high growth in demand for NPK fertilisers on the African continent.