Most workers in the mining industry use three simple words to describe South Africa’s underground mines: hot, dark and deep. Deep, as in 1 to 3 km deep. These mines are also remote; 500 to 1 000 km away from the nearest major city in some cases. Given these conditions – and the lack of communication technology typically available to surface mines – how does a tyre service and supply partner manage one of the most important operating costs to a mine? Maximising performance. This article first appeared in Mining Review Africa Issue 5 2018 Kal Tire has the expertise to deliver fully on this front. In the spring of 2017, the company acquired Tyre Corporation, one of South Africa’s leading mining tyre management and tyre supply companies. More than 900 team members, many of them skilled tyre technicians who had been with Tyre Corporation since its founding twelve years earlier, joined the Kal Tire family, which has had a presence in Africa since 2009. Where Kal Tire is an international mining tyre service and supply provider with 45 years of experience, serving more than 150 mines across five continents, Tyre Corporation had built a reputation as experts serving South Africa’s underground mines. Kal Tire brought its global standards and best practices for training, safety and culture. Tyre Corporation knew its customers’ unique needs intensely. Together, as Kal Tire South Africa, team members are delivering an exceptional approach to maximizing tyre performance. Today, South Africa team members are spread across 60 underground mine sites, managing 11 000 rolling wheels and safely changing 2 700 tyres on a monthly basis. Kal Tire specialises in taking charge of the full ownership of the tyres on the customer’s behalf in order to extract the best possible performance from them. This way, mine operations can focus on their core function of moving ore from the mining face to the surface. As a one-stop solution, customers count on Kal Tire to handle everything in a mining tyre’s life, from cradle to grave, the approach of total outsourcing of all tyre-related responsibilities allows teams to act as partners with a vested interest in the performance of the tyres and, therefore, the mine. The holistic ownership approach, which encompasses sourcing, maintenance, inspections, repairs, tracking and reporting, and road inspections, pays off. Kal Tire gets everyone involved, from the mine manager to tyre technicians, all taking responsibility for their role and ultimately managing tyres, optimising conditions and investment, safely and efficiently. It also has a promising start because Kal Tire is not owned by a tyre manufacturer, so that independence allows team members to select the best-performing tyres for the operation. It takes industry expertise, persistent monitoring and careful planning to follow a tyre from sourcing to scrapping, all the while ensuring that the tyres are performing well and that machinery is working to plan. To achieve both, Kal Tire South Africa’s underground crews employ a planned maintenance programme ensuring maximum face time for the machinery and maximising tons mined. Our aspiration is to manage tyre servicing and supply towards maximum equipment availability and tonnage opportunity. We have developed and adopted many best practices for tyre performance, increasing uptime and minimising unplanned maintenance and tyre failure. One initiative in particular stands out; the use of Tyre Fill in the majority of the South African underground mines. This product replaces the air within the tyre with a flexible urethane foam fill completely eliminating the risk of tyre puncture and rapid deflation which is an inherent and serious risk related to tyres. Technical tyre studies have shown that air filled tyres in underground applications typically only utilise between 60% – 70% of the usable rubber which dramatically reduces performance and negatively impacts investment. Foam filled tyres utilise between 90% - 100% of the available rubber, reducing maintenance, operating costs, and increasing tonnage opportunity. Kal Tire customers also enjoy ready access to retread and renewing options for tyres for extended life and reduced waste to landfill. Developed and honed over nearly four decades, Kal Tire’s retreading process re-uses quality casings and the latest compounds to deliver “as new” performance and appearance—once again extending the investment and providing additional production opportunity. All tyres that reach the end of their life are inspected prior to being sent to scrap piles to determine failure causes and introduce new corrective measures.A dedicated technical department diligently inspects roads for loose debris and rocks, excessive water in loading and tipping areas, undulating roadways, gradient that causes spillage and tyre damage, and even operator driving habits to ensure the hydraulics—not the tyres—are being used to do the heavy lifting. Giving the mine corrective action reports about these issues goes a long way toward reducing premature tyre failures. Kal Tire also offers customers extensive tyre tracking and performance evaluation to ensure teams are selecting tyres that offer the lowest cost per ton and the best tyre and wheel combination. Together, all of this is a first-class service the mines couldn’t do without. Kal Tire is very proud of its teams’ achievements working in some of the deepest and remote mines in the world. About the author Patrick Brown has been in the tyre industry for 21 years. He was the sales director for 12 years with Tyre Corporation, specialising in underground mining tyres. Brown is now a member of the executive management team for Kal Tire’s Mining Tire Group South Africa, and lives in Johannesburg. You can read the full digital magazine here or subscribe here to receive a print copy