ASX-listed Celsius Resources has completed 45 diamond drill holes at its 95% owned Opuwo cobalt project, aimed primarily at expanding the existing indicated and inferred mineral resource to the west, and expanding and better defining the mineralisation in the central portion of its resource area. Namibia - A further aim of the drilling conducted to date in 2018 has been to collect further samples for metallurgical test work, focused on the minor ore types (transitional and oxide) comprising approximately 5% of the mineral resource. A drill rig has now mobilised to the DOF North copper-cobalt target, located some 10 km north of the DOF resource area, to complete a series of reconnaissance holes. First assays expected from this target in approximately 5 - 6 weeks. “Whilst we have recently reported our maiden JORC mineral resource for the Opuwo cobalt project, we have continued to expand the mineralised zone with new drilling this year. We expect that this new drilling will provide data for a future upgrade to the mineral resource. We are looking forward to the commencement of the airborne EM survey, which will assist in understanding the potential still to be uncovered at the Opuwo project,” says Celsius Resources MD, Brendan Borg. The company has appointed SkyTEM Surveys ApS to fly a helicopter-borne electromagnetic and magnetic geophysical survey over three key licences that comprise the Opuwo cobalt project. The objectives of the survey are: 1) To assist in geological mapping of near surface conductive sedimentary horizons, which is expected to include the Dolomite Ore Formation (DOF); 2) To delineate discrete conductive zones along the sedimentary horizons; and 3) To detect deeper discrete conductive bodies that may be related to deeper stockwork or semimassive/massive sulphide mineralisation in feeder zones. It is anticipated that the flying of the survey will commence in July and take approximately 28 days to complete. Final interpreted results and data products are expected from the survey in September/October. Celsius Resources is aiming to define a long life, reliable source of cobalt at Opuwo. The company considers the project to have the following advantages: It is located in north western Namibia, approximately 800 km by road from the capital, Windhoek, and approximately 750 km from the port at Walvis Bay. The Opuwo project consists of four exclusive prospecting licences covering approximately 1 470 km². A maiden JORC compliant indicated and inferred mineral resource was announced on 16 April 2018, comprising 112.4 Mt, grading 0.11% cobalt, 0.41% copper and 0.43% zinc, at a cut-off grade of 0.06% cobalt.