The coalition of eight community and civil society organisations challenging the authorisation of the proposed coal mine inside the Mabola Protected Environment has invited a delegation from the community to witness firsthand the reality of coal mining on the Mpumalanga Highveld. Last week, The Voice Representative Council, a local community group, invited the coalition and their attorneys, the Centre for Environmental Rights (CER), to debate the merits of the proposed development in Volksrust, about 60 km from the proposed mining site, with the mining company Atha-Africa Ventures. With a series of court applications and other legal challenges pending against the decisions of various authorities, the coalition said that it was not appropriate to debate the matter with the mining company as proposed. However, the coalition welcomed the fact that the local community group was seeking accurate information. In a letter, the coalition, represented by the CER, said that they are eight non-profit, public interest organisations who believe that the long-term defence of protected areas, strategic water source areas, and biodiversity in this area is in the public interest. Extracts of the letter read as follows: “We and our clients are non-profit organisations working to realise people’s Constitutional environmental rights to clean air, clean water and health, and sustainable, decent jobs. We defend the rights of all interested and affected parties, particularly local people, to be consulted on new developments, and to benefit equitably from them. We believe everyone is entitled to accurate information, so that when they decide whether to support or resist a new development, they do so on the basis of the facts. “The organisations opposing this particular mine do so because the proposed mine would be inside a declared protected area and a strategic water source area. Coal mining in strategic water source areas will threaten South Africa’s water security. The damage that this mine would do to water resources cannot be mitigated. "All these organisations are deeply committed to job creation and improving the quality of life of local people, but we also know that coal mining continues to devastate the lives, health and well-being of communities across the Highveld.” Many of the organisations in the coalition have worked closely with local communities affected by coal mining on the Mpumalanga Highveld, and published research reports on how coal mining has destroyed the health, environment and livelihoods of local communities, without those communities sharing in the benefits of the mining, despite many promises from mining companies when they first seek community support. Last year, one of the Coalition members, the Mining & Environmental Justice Network of South Africa (MEJCON-SA), joined the Mining Affected Communities United in Action (MACUA) and Women Affected by Mining United in Action (WAMUA) in legal action to force the Minister of Mineral Resources to consult with mining affected communities on changes to the Mining Charter – until then, the Ministry and Department were not consulting with communities, but only negotiating with the Minerals Council of South Africa (formerly the Chamber of Mines), of which Atha is a member. These eight organisations are: Earthlife Africa Johannesburg, the Mining and Environmental Justice Community Network of South Africa, Birdlife South Africa, the Endangered Wildlife Trust, Federation for a Sustainable Environment, groundWork, Association for Water and Rural Development (AWARD) and the Bench Marks Foundation. These reports include: groundWork (2016): Destruction of the Highveld: http://www.groundwork.org.za/reports/gWReport_2016.pdf and https://cer.org.za/news/new-report-by-cer-partner-groundwork-on-destruction-of-the-highveld-by-coal-mining; Centre for Environmental Rights (2016): Zero Hour: Poor Governance of Mining and the Violation of Environmental Rights in Mpumalanga: https://cer.org.za/news/zero-hour; Bench Marks Foundation (2014): SOUTH AFRICAN COAL MINING: Corporate Grievance Mechanisms, Community Engagement Concerns and Mining Impacts: http://www.bench-marks.org.za/research/policy_gap_9.pdf; Also see this report published by the University of the Witwatersrand Forrest, K., and Loate, L. (2017) Coal, water and mining flowing badly. Working Paper: 9. Johannesburg: Society, Work and Development Institute, University of the Witwatersrand: https://www.swop.org.za/working-papers