West African gold developer and explorer Tietto Minerals reports high-grade gold intercepts at depth at its Gludehi deposit which extend the limit of known gold mineralisation to more than 1 000 m strike length. West Africa - Gludehi is part of Tietto Minerals' Abujar gold project in Côte d’Ivoire. “I am delighted with the excellent continuity of high‐grade gold mineralisation over 1 km
strike at  the northern half of  the Gludehi deposit," comments Tietto Minerals MD Caigen Wang. "Our extensional drilling has reported high  grades and good widths at depth, suggesting  excellent and almost immediate potential to grow our gold resources across the Abujar project. “The high‐grade tenor seen in the latest results also bodes well for extending the size of
the known gold resources and eventually, for underground mining potential at this  particular part of the Gludehi deposit," he continues. During its maiden 2018 drilling campaign, Tietto Minerals drilled seven deep RC/DD holes  over 1 100 m strike length of the Gludehi deposit from section line 16 to section line 27 to  test the old mineralisation at depth. The programme was successful in extending the known limits of gold mineralisation. A  listing  of  the  high‐grade  gold mineralisation intercepted by the seven holes. With these results, the known limits of high‐grade gold mineralisation have been  significantly extended at depth. The grade tenor and width of deeper intercepts such as ZRD104 show promise to support a future underground development once any open-pit operations are completed within a 1 km strike from Line 17 to Line 27. Based on these encouraging results Tietto Minerals will shortly initiate 15 000 m of DD and RC drilling to test the mineralisation limits at depth at the Gludehi deposit. Apart from testing the depth limits of the Gludehi deposit, the planned drilling campaign will also focus on the following: Tietto Minerals has changed the name of the Abujar Main deposit to Gludehi to avoid
confusion with the project name Abujar. The Abujar gold project is comprised of  three tenements: Zoukougbeu, Issia and the
Zahibo. The  Gludehi  deposit  is  the  first deposit/prospect discovered by Tietto Minerals within  the Abujar project. Other deposits/prospects discovered  within the Abujar project include Pischon Deposit,
Golikro Prospect, Zoukpangbeu, Koflankro, Vingt  Duex  etc. With the likelihood of more gold prospects to be discovered and more gold deposits to be defined within the Abujar gold project, Tietto Minerals has decided to use the name Gludehi for the first gold deposit within the Abujar gold project. The company has initiated an aggressive IP survey programme to be executed by a team led by acclaimed geologist and Tietto investor Dr Minlu Fu. This will assist the company by accelerating gold prospect definition and the detection  of deep gold targets within the extensive 70 km gold mineralised geological structure that  runs through the three tenements of the Abujar gold project.