TSXV-listed Namibia Critical Metals has announced that a SkyTEM airborne geophysical survey has been completed over the Kunene Cobalt-Copper project in northern Namibia. Preliminary data has been provided and an initial evaluation of the electromagnetic (EM) responses shows clear conductive trends associated with favourable sedimentary horizons and structures known to be associated with cobalt-copper mineralization. Of particular interest are the prolific number of responses along a 20 kilometer-long segment of the interpreted extension of the Dolomite Ore Formation (DOF) and along a 15 km-long segment of the Okanihova lineament. The DOF hosts the Opuwo cobalt-copper-zinc deposit of Celsius Resources, and historic drilling by First Quantum Minerals intersected anomalous copper and cobalt along the Okanihova lineament. Two more isolated targets have been identified at Okanihova East and Olulilwa Southwest. Secondary targets are associated with contact zones along the Western Target magnetic anomaly and in sedimentary horizons parallel to the interpreted DOF extension in the northwest over a strike length of 20 kilometers. “The SkyTEM survey has exceeded our expectations in terms of the prolific number of targets it has identified and the detail in which it has mapped the favourable sedimentary formations and structures," says Don Burton, President of Namibia Critical Metals. "This is a very preliminary assessment of an invaluable database that immediately provides us with the ability to pinpoint drill targets on the ground. "We will undertake a systematic reconnaissance drilling approach, utilizing one diamond drill and one reverse circulation drill rig to test multiple targets to accelerate the opportunity for deposit discoveries. "We are looking at a drill start up before the end of September. Geophysical interpretations will be refined upon delivery of final products from SkyTEM and this will include a more comprehensive study for deep conductors.” The Kunene project area covers over 720 km2 and is characterized by widespread base metal and associated mineralization occurring in discrete sedimentary horizons such as the DOF where Co-Cu is associated with disseminations and veinlets of sulphide minerals, as well as orogenic copper, and stratabound Zn-Pb mineralization. The stratabound DOF hosts the Opuwo Co-Cu-Zn deposit which occurs on the contiguous ground held by Celsius Resources where it has been traced for over 35 km. This stratigraphic package is interpreted to continue across the Kunene Project area and given the nature of the mineralization and host lithologies (black shales with graphitic members) it was decided to fly the area with EM. The objectives of the airborne EM survey were to refine geological and structural mapping under the largely covered areas, to delineate conductive sedimentary horizons, to isolate conductive bodies that may be indicative of near surface mineral deposits, and to detect sulphide deposits and stockworks at depth. Previous work had identified three large target areas primarily associated with Co-Cu anomalies identified from regional soil sample surveys which were confirmed by detailed soil sampling. These areas were referred to as the DOF Extension, the Western Targets and the Okanihova Targets. A primary objective of the airborne EM survey was to delineate specific targets within these regional geochemical anomalies for drilling. Celsius has reported that the Opuwo deposit hosts a maiden JORC compliant resource of 72.0 million tonnes at a grade of 0.11% cobalt, 0.42% copper and 0.41% zinc in the Indicated category, and a further 40.5 Mt at a grade of 0.12% cobalt, 0.41% copper and 0.46% zinc in the Inferred category. It is noted that the mineralization on the Celsius property may not be indicative of mineralization that may be found on the Kunene project area held by Namibia Rare Earths. SkyTEM ApS was contracted to fly the survey at a flight line spacing of 200 meters on north-south oriented lines across the entire project area. SkyTEM utilized their most powerful time domain EM system (SkyTEM 312 HP) which provides superior resolution in the near-surface environment (0-100 vertical meters) and comparable depth penetration (300-400 vertical meters) when compared to its peers. The platform included a Geometrics total intensity magnetometer and was installed on an Astar 350 B3 helicopter operated by Savannah Helicopters. The survey was flown in cooperation with similar coverage over the Celsius ground which reduced survey costs related to mobilization and de-mobilization charges and mitigated standby charges for weather days over mountainous ground due to high winds. Total line kilometers flown on the Namibia Critical Metals ground amounted to about 4,150 kilometers.