Exclusive interview with Nere Teriba, managing director of Kian Smith Trade and Co, a returning silver sponsor at Nigeria Mining Week in Abuja in October. “Our message at Nigeria Mining Week will be about developing a gold market centre in West Africa by integrating the development value chain into the regional economy” Let’s start with some background on Kian Smith Trade and your work in the mining sector?
My name is Nere Teriba, Managing Director of Kian Smith Trade and Co. The company is involved in mining, consulting, mineral concession management, minerals trading and brokerage. Its mining portfolio and mineral expertise is primarily on gold. Other services offered include minerals procurement and extension services for Artisanal Small Scale Gold Mining. In the last six years, the company has been a market strategist and organizer for the metals and minerals market in Nigeria. Any projects that you are involved in in Nigeria that you are particularly excited about at the moment?
We are excited about our work on developing and Integrating the gold value chain.We have recently launched services as a gold trading firm offering services in purchasing and refining gold for our clients. We believe these services will be impactful for the development of the gold sector. What in your view are the challenges to taking the mining sector in Nigeria to the next level?
Consistent holistic approach to development of the sector from mines to market. For instance, the gold sector has not had a national gold policy focused on developing the gold subsector. We are excited about the government working on a draft national gold policy and those of us in the private sector look forward to championing a shared role in the development of the sector. What is your vision for the mining sector in Nigeria?
The Nigerian mining sector will have success stories in mineral exploration, mining & successful community development -all bringing positive holistic impact to the economy. This will finally put Nigeria on the map as a destination for mining. We are excitedly working to make sure we witness and enjoy the sectorial growth. You are a returning sponsor for Nigeria Mining Week. How important is this even to showcase the country’s mining potential?
The Nigeria Mining Week has become an important event in the mining sector. Participation and Impact has increased every year. What will be your message at the event?
Our message will be about developing a gold market centre in West Africa by integrating the development value chain into the regional economy. How can we strategically organize the disjointed West African gold business into a formidable network? 