According to the World Gold Council gold has fallen to a 20-month low amid sharp EM currency depreciation. At these levels, the council believes the gold price may bounce back. Consumer demand is likely to be supportive in H2. And short positioning may quickly reverse should one of the many current macroeconomic risks materialise, increasing investment demand. The World Gold Council notes that the gold price lost 3% during the first half of August, a downturn that was exacerbated by gold's fall below US$1,200/oz – an important technical support level – for the first time since early 2017. Gold was propelled down by the strength of the US dollar against both developed and emerging market currencies, particularly, a weakening of the Chinese yuan first and Turkish lira later. In fact, the dollar's strength has been one of the most important drivers of gold's performance this year as confrontational trade rhetoric and sanctions has so far played in favour of the US. In addition, both the ECB and BOJ have delayed policy rate hikes, increasing differentials between interest rates in the US. But gold may rebound due to both technical and fundamental reasons. The World Gold Council mentions that gold speculative positioning in futures markets is increasingly short. CME managed money net long positions stand at a record low since 2006 – when data was first broken down by investor type. Furthermore, net combined speculative positions, which go back further, are negative for the first time since December 2001. Many market participants have questioned why gold has failed to benefit from recent market turmoil. In reality, gold has indeed allowed non-US investors to hedge risks associated with a depreciating currency – for example, the euro, Chinese yuan or Turkish lira to name a few. So far market volatility has been relatively low, yet investors remain wary. An example of this can be seen by the increase in flows from equity to bond funds over recent months, as well as the consistent flattening of the bond yield curve in the US. And there are good reasons for that: The past has shown that any of these risks can be the catalyst that elicits strong investment demand. A period of heightened geopolitical risk with the potential to impact the global economy could, thus, be supportive of gold even if the dollar were to strengthen. Gold could trade lower if the US dollar increases its strength, but in the light of positioning in US, and increased interest from buyers in China and India, the risks seem skewed towards a recovery. As such, the World Gold Council believes that investors can benefit from holding gold as a strategic asset.