DRC Mining Week 2018 was a major success and saw all major copper/cobalt producers attend, present and exhibit – a clear demonstration on the value they place in the conference. And the focus was not just about production and achievements but also about long-term commitments to uplifting the DRC – through employment, upskilling, economic upliftment and sustainable business practices. Diversified base metals company MMG has championed gender inclusion after amendments to the labour law – and this continues to be a priority area. Strategies is implemented to ensure MMG’s female workforce on site is provided with further training and exposure to operational roles, including mining and processing to prepare them for any employment opportunities that may arise. MMG is also working with its male workforce to promote diversity and reinforce open-mindedness and acceptance to this positive, significant change in their working environment. Ivanhoe Mines, through local subsidiary Kamoa Copper SA, has a sustainable development plan that defines the socio economic development of local communities as a pillar to boost local economies for superior returns for the people living in the company’s mining footprint. This requires specific exercise of community capacity-building into self-reliable businesses. Kamoa has planned a pilot project aiming to empower a group of 24 people including women, selected amongst the local community to run under a cooperative brick making plant that will supply the mine with brick and paves. Sustainability is at the heart of natural resources producer, Eurasian Resources Groups (ERG) Africa’s approach to doing business. It strives to develop a corporate culture that values trust, transparency and professionalism. In the DRC, ERG Africa is committed to the prevention of child labour in mining and has entered into a three-year partnership to support the work of the Good Shepherd Sisters. Their community development programme in Kolwezi is designed to break the cycle of violence and abuse against children, women and girls in the artisanal mining communities and to improve their living conditions.