ASX-listed West Wits Mining says the company is well down the path to increase production at its Witwatersrand Basin Project in South Africa. The company’s Principal Geologist, Manie Swart states the WBP project is currently on a self-sustaining footing. Monthly production was averaging >15kt ore (~2.0 g/t Au) from the Kimberley Central Open Pit prospect and the company is undertaking a number of activities to significantly increase those rates. Swart said WBP has been delivering free cash flow since November 2017, a cash flow being utilised to fund on-going development. The current resource at Kimberley Central Open Pit is sufficient to sustain production for the next eight to 10 months. “A key plank in the production growth planning is the advancement of two small-scale mining permits at Kimberley West and Main & South Central in the WBP area,” Swart said. “Upon granting, the mining license applications will enable West Wits to achieve the transition from a junior gold explorer with small, cash-flow positive operations into a mid-tier gold producer.” Swart said the mining licence application process planning was significantly advanced with management holding extensive community consultation, furthering environmental studies and having regular engagement with the South African Department of Mineral Resources to accelerate the process. Exploration activity is also an important part of the company’s push to grow production at the historic WBP project area. The Witwatersrand Basin area where the West Wits WBP project is located is the world’s biggest gold footprint, having already produced more than 40% of all gold mined to date. West Wits’ project area has historically produced 41Moz at ~5g/t. However, the company says there are still significant areas of virgin ground, untouched by previous historic mining, with expansive open-pit opportunities. To date, the company has identified 12 targets for both open-pit and underground development. A key area for further development is the Kimberley East Project, the company’s highest priority underground target. West Wits has identified a new exploration opportunity for the K9A reef at Kimberley East which the Company believes offers a unique modern-era opportunity despite its previous mining history. The K9A reef sits 10m stratigraphically above the K9B reef and has been extensively mined on the historic DRD portion of the Witwatersrand Basin Project. However, a new Exploration Target represents new areas not included in the current resource inventory. Other opportunities include the Main and South Central Open Pit and the Kimberley West Open Pit. At the Main & South Central (M&S) targets, there is an existing published exploration target of 150 to 200 Kt@5–7g/t for25,000 – 40,000oz Au. The next steps to be completed by West Wits on the way to a production increase are: