Exclusive interview with Dr. Mohammed Lawal Buga, director, head of industrial chemicals and minerals department, Raw Materials Research and Development Council (RMRDC), Nigeria. At the upcoming Nigeria Mining Week he is part of a panel discussion on “Downstream mining beneficiation: The way to grow the local market and increase the GDP”. “Opportunities in the Nigerian mining sector include: credible data generation, provision of small scale mineral beneficiation plants and gemstone lapidaries.” Let’s start with some background on the Raw Materials Research and Development Council, there is a proud history there.
My organization, the Raw Materials Research and Development Council, was established by the Federal Government of Nigeria, with the mandate to promote local utilization of raw materials by industries. What does your position entail?
Currently, I am the Director, Industrial Minerals and Chemicals Department. My responsibilities include the promotion of value addition to local mineral and chemical raw materials through collaboration with researchers, locally and internationally, and the organised Private Sector, including machinery/equipment manufacturers and project financing institutions. What are some of the projects that the Council is involved in that you are most excited about currently?
Projects include; calcination of kaolin as partial substitute for titanium dioxide in paints, development of industrial grade talc and commercialization of caustic soda/ precipitated calcium carbonate. What in your view are the main opportunities for the mining sector in Nigeria and the region?
Opportunities in the sector include; credible data generation, provision of small scale mineral beneficiation plants and gemstone lapidaries. And the challenges?
Challenges include inadequate data / information and financing. What is your vision for this sector?
To be a significant contributor to the GDP. How important is the Nigeria Mining Week as a meeting place for the sector?
Nigerian Mining Week will provide opportunities for business networking necessary for attracting investment in the sector. You are part of a panel discussion on “Downstream mining beneficiation: The way to grow the local market and increase the GDP” - What will be your message at the event this year?
I hope the 2018 Nigeria Mining Week will catalyse investment in mining and large scale mineral beneficiation.