The board of directors of Implats has approved the next phase of the implementation of Impala Rustenburg’s strategic transformation. This follows the recent completion of a strategic review aimed at restoring the Impala Rustenburg operation to long‐term sustainability and profitability. The Implats Group is committed to a value‐focused strategy across all operations to sustainably improve its competitive position, profitability and financial returns. This will result in the Group reducing its exposure to higher‐cost, less flexible, labour‐intensive operations to improve flexibility and capacity, as well as sustainably generate attractive returns in a changing market and operating environment. This strategic orientation has been informed by a significant decline in the US$ platinum price and sustained high mining cost inflation. Cost pressure is particularly acute in older, deeper, labour‐intensive conventional Platinum Group Metals (PGM) mines located on the Western Limb of the Bushveld Complex. Over the past few years, Impala Rustenburg has initiated various measures to return the
operation to profitability. While there have been many improvements, these optimisation measures alone have not been sufficient to secure the economic viability of the operation in the prevailing low platinum price environment. The Impala Rustenburg strategic review considered a range of measures to optimise and
reposition the business. Taking account of the current operating environment and macroeconomic realities, the review found that a fundamental business restructuring was the only viable option to secure a long‐term future for the operation. In a phased approach, operations will therefore cease at Impala Rustenburg’s end‐of‐life and uneconomic shafts, with future mining activity focused on profitable, lower‐cost, high‐value, and longer‐life assets. The strategic transformation will be implemented over a two‐year period and key components of the change programme include: “The only option for conventional producers today is to fundamentally restructure loss‐making operations to address cash‐burn and create lower‐cost, profitable businesses that are able to sustain operations and employment in a lower metal price environment," says Implats CEO, Nico Muller. "While employee rationalisation is inevitable in a restructuring process of this nature, due care will be taken to ensure that job losses are minimised as far as possible through a range of job loss avoidance measures. "This major transformation will be phased over a two year period to ensure that we are able to mitigate the various implementation risks and socio‐economic impacts. "Our board and management team is committed to ensuring that this transition is implemented in a socially responsible manner and will explore commercial options to dispose of shafts that do not fit the long‐term portfolio. "Where job losses are unavoidable, Impala Rustenburg is committed to implementing the required changes in consultation with all its social partners.” Negative cash flows recorded at the operation in recent years, and the capital investment to develop 16 and 20 Shafts, have been funded from cash flows from other Group operations as well as external sources, including an equity raise and convertible bond issue totalling more than R10 billion. The Group’s cash position at the end of the 2018 financial year has been further eroded by ongoing losses and the impact of a once‐off pipeline stock build‐up this year. Implats has reviewed its existing financial resources to ensure that it remains fully funded throughout the implementation of the strategic review. Additional liquidity and headroom have been addressed through three components: Forward sale: Liquidity has recently been reduced by a build‐up of approximately
R3.8 billion in excess pipeline stocks following the Number 5 furnace fire. To address this, excess pipeline stock from the 2020 financial year will be monetised early by means of a forward sale to release approximately R2 billion in cash in financial year 2019, without impacting on contractual deliveries to customers. Revolving credit facilities: Implats has revolving credit facilities (RCFs) totalling R4 billion, which are available until the 2021 financial year with its lender group. Implats has engaged with its lender group, who are supportive of the strategic review implementation plan, and discussions are underway to convert the existing bilateral facilities into a single R4 billion RCF to further enhance headroom and flexibility. Group cash: The Group is expected to have a positive cash balance in the current and next financial years, which is supported by cash flow from other Group operations. The cash position considers the payment of all debt obligations during this period, including the
repayment of the Marula BEE debt. Remaining Group debt is either serviced by operational cash flow at subsidiary level or is long‐dated beyond the strategic review implementation period. The combination of the forward sale, R4 billion RCFs and Implats’ existing cash‐on‐hand of approximately R2.2 billion will be sufficient to fund the implementation of the strategic review. Following the implementation of Impala Rustenburg’s strategic transformation, all Group
operations are anticipated to be profitable within the prevailing platinum price environment. The Implats Group has made good progress on numerous strategic initiatives, notably: “Our recent strategic change initiatives, together with the implementation of the Impala Rustenburg transformation, positions the Group’s portfolio exceptionally well for
future profitability, even at current metal prices. It will significantly improve the position of the Group to sustainably deliver improved returns to all stakeholders in the medium‐ to long‐term,” concludes Muller.