Fields results show that the new Vulco R67 mill lining rubber compound from Weir Minerals delivers an increase in wear life of 20%. With a liner that can run significantly longer, operators will experience a measurable reduction in mill downtime, installation and maintenance costs. “This is a breakthrough in the industry; a rubber mill liner that in extensive global trials delivered on average 20% longer life than comparable composite lifter bars," comments  Mathias Kuhrke, global product manager for mill lining systems at Weir Minerals . "This means less shut-down time for maintenance, which in this highly competitive environment represents a measurable outcome to our customers’ productivity and bottom line," continues Kuhrke. The innovative premium rubber compound is the most wear resistant Weir Minerals has ever formulated. Operators using R67 lifter bars within their mill will not only benefit from the increase in wear life, but they will notice a measurable reduction in installation and maintenance costs as a result of a longer run schedule. Weir Minerals is an industry leader in materials technology and have been supplying the Vulco® R63 rubber compound to mill lining applications across the globe for over 50 years. Whilst this technology performs well in most grinding applications, many suppliers are perceived by the market to offer similar rubber compounds with no real differentiation. Weir Minerals identified a clear gap in the market for a rubber compound that could increase the wear life of its mill liners and outlast the rest. After extensive field research on the current rubber compounds available to the market, Weir Minerals expert engineers and material scientists developed the unique patented material that forms the R67 compound. “Using our extensive in-house knowledge, experience and expertise, we were able to develop a new Weir proprietary elastomer that is able to withstand the severe abrasion typical in mill systems applications," explains Dr Michael Lum, materials and elastomer development manager for Weir Minerals. "Our Vulco R67 compound utilises new technology and chemistry in elastomer formulary which overcomes the limitations of more traditional elastomer compounds used in the market today,” he states. The Vulco R67 rubber compound is visually different from others in the market place, with green capped ends on the lifter bars. “During the product development process we added a green pigmentation to the formulation to visually set our lifter bars apart from the competitors. "Now when a mill operator sees the distinct green strip on the lifter bar, they will know they have a premium product,” says Lum.