Bass Metals is eyeing a move into the global supply of expandable graphite under a window of opportunity to snare market share for the very limited but increasingly in-demand commodity. Addressing the Paydirt Africa Down Under (ADU) mining conference in Perth, Bass Metals’ CE, Tim McManus, said  expandable graphite was emerging as the highest growth of any graphite product. “Regulatory pressures are forcing higher adoption of expandable graphite in flame retardants particularly,” McManus said. “This is expected to push demand for this product type to above 2 Mtpa in China alone, by 2027,” he said. “However, not all graphite types are suitable for expandability and this favours Bass’ forward mining and export of our amendable large flake graphite into this market as we continue to ramp up our mining and processing operations from our Madagascar mines.” Expandable graphite is a compound of graphite that with the use of reagents and heated to around 1,000°C, rapidly expands to hundreds of times its original size. Such expandability is better suited to coarser flake graphites such as found in Madagascar compared to smaller flake graphite types. These expansion properties enable its applications in high heat, corrosion, compression and radiation resistance. “Expandable graphite is a market segment with a very limited supply structure,” McManus said. “There are only a few suppliers in this supply chain and that favours further export and customer offtake opportunities from our Madagascar graphite exploration, development and mining operations. The new opportunity comes after a strong start to FY19 for Bass Metals. It commenced the new financial year successfully recommissioning its Graphmada graphite mine and processing plant in Madagascar, at a rate of 6,000 tons of graphite concentrate per annum. Some 45% of that output is in the premium large flake concentrate category, with large flake recovery rates continuing to improve. Bass Metals has its eyes firmly set on more than tripling that output by 2020 in addition to developing downstream expandable graphite production and technologies. Its aspirations will be buoyed by the US$640 million upgrade of the Tamatave export port by the Madagascan and Japanese Governments. Graphmada has a current large flake graphite resource of 382,000 tons of contained graphite with substantial upside in existing primary, secondary and new deposits. It has recommissioned the mine at a low operating cost of around US$5 per tonne of ore delivered and expected all-in C1 production cost of less than US$500 per tonne.