South African mineral processing company, Imilingo Mineral Processing, has made inroads in Africa with its sensor-based sorting solutions and latest dredging innovations. “We pride ourselves on being at the forefront of ingenuity in the mining sector," comments Imilingo MD, Jaco Prinsloo. "We are excited to have the opportunity to share our world first iDredgeXRT with the mining world and relish the occasion to engage with industry kin and media," he continues. “We are a proudly South African company that fabricate in-house using state of the art global XRT and submersible pump technology. "We will be previewing a world first machine that is the future of skills development in alluvial mining and far safer than conventional methods that require divers. "Further to this, our innovation encourages a diverse workforce by removing the work hazards that would previously have excluded women,”  comments Prinsloo. Imilingo will be showcasing an exclusive world-first preview of their latest innovation in sensor-based sorting and dredging integration at Electra Mining 2018, at Nasrec Expo Centre from 10 September to 14 September. Prinsloo notes that Imilingo is excited to be exhibiting at Electra Mining for the first time and to have the opportunity to put their products and services in the spotlight of the African mining industry. “As first-time exhibitors, we are excited to be sharing in the largest gathering of fellow mining practitioners on the continent. "It’s a great platform to exercise our external communications strategy. 900+ exhibitors and delegates from across Africa will gather to see the latest products and solutions in the mining industry and this year Electra Mining will be introducing themed days. “Brand new at Electra Mining Africa this year is that each day will be themed differently. So we urge visitors to come to all five days and experience all the themes,” says Electra Mining Africa’s event director, Charlene Hefer. The five themes for the five days are; ‘The Future of Skills development’, ‘New products showcase’, ‘Local is lekker’, ‘Safety’ and ‘Diversity’ respectively and Prinsloo believes that each of the themes perfectly embody the Imilingo values and further substantiates and communicates the ingenuity of their offering.