ASX-listed Golden Rim Resources is confident it has the exploration upside to significantly upgrade the recently announced maiden 1 million ounce mineral resource at its Kouri gold project in Burkina Faso. Addressing the audience at the Paydirt Africa Down Under mining conference in Perth, Golden Rim  MD, Craig Mackay, said the May milestone of the initial Indicated and Inferred mineral resource of 20.8 Mt at 1.5 g/t gold at the Banouassi prospect within its Kouri project area was “just the beginning”. “We believe there is tremendous upside at Kouri. Our push is to continue an exploration program to see just how big this thing can be,” Mackay said. That potential has already been highlighted by new exploration work undertaken since the May resource revelation. Golden Rim recently announced that recent RC drilling activity had intersected a number of high grade gold intercepts in a campaign targeting extensions to the gold mineralisation in the immediate Mineral Resource area at Kouri. The significant new gold intercepts included: Additional drilling undertaken 100 m south of the Mineral Resource has also confirmed the existence of a number of significant new gold lodes that extend for at least 400 m of strike and that remain open along strike and at depth. Mackay told the ADU audience that many of the gold lodes in the Mineral Resource area remain open along strike, with the potential for discovery of new gold lodes outside the Mineral Resource. He said Golden Rim planned to conduct further RC and diamond drilling in the immediate Mineral Resource area along with systematic exploration of the new regional target areas to the southwest of the Mineral Resource that have been identified by auger drilling. Golden Rim’s immediate focus is to investigate the upside bulk mining potential and depth extensions at Kouri, with a proposed new deeper drilling campaign to focus on high-grade shoot targets. Mackay painted a broader picture before ADU delegates of Burkina Faso’s upside. He noted it is the fastest growing gold destination in Africa, with 10 new gold mines opening in the past 12 years, in addition to significant exploration upside and a supportive government operating a modern Mining Code.