Mauritanides, the largest and only biennial mining and energy conference and exhibition held in Mauritania since 2010, returns to Nouakchott from 11-13 December 2018. More than 1500 attendees are expected to converge once again in Nouakchott for this flagship showcase.
This event, a major fixture in the global mining and energy trade event calendar, will continue to shine the spotlight on Mauritania’s vast minerals and energy wealth. Mauritanides is supported at the highest level by the Mauritania government and key government leaders including the President, Prime Minister and Minister for Petroleum, Energy and Mines have graced past events. 1. Strong top-level government support 2. The only platform in Mauritania to connect with key industry and government decision makers 3. Experienced global events organiser with profound understanding of mining and energy sector, especially within Africa Background on Mauritanides Conference and Exhibition
Mauritanides is the largest mining and energy conference in Mauritania and is fully supported by the Ministry of Petroleum, Energy and Mines. Key industry players who are currently in Mauritania or looking to enter the Mauritania resources and energy sector have always been a part of this major event. Recent 2016 sponsors include Kinross Gold Corporation, Algold Resources, National Industrial and Mining Company (SNIM), Mauritanian Copper Mines and Kosmos Energy. Enquiries for Mauritanides 2018 can be sent to Mahesh.babu@spire-events.com Background on Spire Events
Spire Events is a Singapore based events company that has conceptualised and organised the global Mining Investment Conference Series since 2015. From the inaugural Mining Investment Asia Conference in Singapore, the series has expanded to its current line-up of 14 Mining Investment Conferences across Asia, Europe, Middle East, North and Latin America and Africa. Spire Events also launched a new MiningTech Conference Series in 2018 to focus on the role of technology in mining. The first event, MiningTech South America was successfully launched in Santiago, Chile in June and will continue in Australia and South Africa for 2018. The full calendar of all Spire Events conferences can be found at www.spire-events.com