Abidjan, Côte d’Ivoire – The 2nd Ecowas Mining and Petroleum Forum & Exhibition (ECOMOF 2018) is taking place from 9 – 11 October 2018 in Abidjan, Cote D’Ivoire. The event is organised by the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) Commission, the Government of the Republic of Cote d’Ivoire and AME Trade Ltd. Held every two years, the event is taking place in Abidjan, Côte d’Ivoire, Africa’s fastest growing economy with a solid position in international markets and home to significant natural resources. The theme for the three day forum is “Strategies to Promote the Development of West Africa’s Mining and Petroleum Industries.”
The ECOWAS region is endowed with natural resources, notably gold, manganese, copper, bauxite, iron ore, zinc, nickel, phosphates, diamond, uranium, etc. There have been significant developments in the mining sector in West Africa driven by attractive national mining policies and a strong foreign private sector investment. Implementation of mutually beneficial fiscal regimes for both investors and mining countries have further led to West Africa becoming the new mining hub of the continent. ECOMOF 2018 will bring together major players from the mining sector, top government delegations, C level executives, solution providers, investors and other key stakeholders to generate and discuss ideas in order to overcome challenges and find the optimal solutions to realise growth values in the extractive sector of the economies in West Africa and work towards a path of sustainable development through regional cooperation. Confirmed sponsors till date include industry leaders: Endeavour Mining (Silver Sponsor), IDC (Bronze Sponsor), Concrete Canvas (Associate Sponsor) and X&M (Associate Sponsor). "A platform that will allow the reflection on coherent strategies for the promotion and sustainable development of oil and mining resources in the ECOWAS region." Thierry Tanoh, Minister of Petroleum, Energy and Renewable Energy for Cote D'Ivoire
Programme for ECOMOF 2018 will cover pertinent issues such as mineral and petroleum potential and prospective investment opportunities, technological innovation, good governance, local content and diversification of the mining industry for long term growth and development. The event will feature the key public and private sector decision makers from the West African mining and petroleum industries. The programme will emphasise on the mineral and petroleum potential, local content, transparency, technological innovation and prospective investment insights. ECOMOF 2015 was a huge success attracting +1040 attendees from +22 countries.
Key Sessions to Be Covered At ECOMOF 2018: Mining Experts Speaking At ECOMOF 2018: Visit http://ecomof.com/