Volt Resources has announced the completion of a feasibility study into the Stage 1 development of it’s flagship Bunyu graphite project located in Tanzania. East Africa -  The Stage 1 Feasibility Study is another important step forward in Volt Resources' plan to become one of the top three global producers of natural flake graphite. “The company has been implementing a two stage development strategy following the completion of a large scale Pre-Feasibility PFS in December 2016," comments Volt Resources CEO, Trevor Matthews. "Concurrent with the PFS completion, Volt Resources announced the largest graphite JORC Mineral Resource in Tanzania and one of the largest in the world. “Following a detailed strategic review of product markets and financial markets, in May 2017 Volt Resources announced a clear pathway to transition the company into a globally significant producer of material quantities of high quality graphite products. "It was decided that this accelerated pathway would be achieved via the development of the Bunyu project over two stages," he continues. Stage 1 is focused on the development of a nominal 20,000 to 25,000 tpa graphite mine and processing facility in Tanzania with planned exports of graphite products into the USA, China and other markets. The proposed Stage 2 development is an expansion of Stage 1 production based on the market demand for Bunyu’s graphite products and leveraging the large scale graphite mineral resource and Bunyu’s close proximity to critical infrastructure. The Stage 2 expansion is targeted to meet expected significant increases in demand for coarse flake graphite in the expandable graphite market and fine flake size products for battery anode material and other existing and evolving industrial uses for micro carbon products.” During the Stage 1 Feasibility Study Volt Resources working with its Tanzanian subsidiary, Volt Graphite Tanzania Ltd (VGT), has also conducted the following activities: The Stage 1 development incorporates a significant amount of infrastructure, utilities and mine development work that benefits the Stage 2 expansion including the site access road, plant laydown area, tailings storage facility, waste dumps, stockpile areas, open pit development and mining, accommodation village and water supply.