TSX-listed West African gold producer Endeavour Mining has received positive drill results for the Fetekro property, located in north-central Côte d’Ivoire approximately 500 km from Abidjan – Endeavour’s most advanced greenfield exploration property. Côte d’Ivoire – Endeavour Mining began exploration on the Fetekro property in March 2017, following a strategic assessment of its exploration tenements which ranked the property as a top priority target. Since then, a total of 312 reverse circulation (RC) and diamond drilling (DD) holes have been drilled, amounting to nearly 32 000 m. Drilling mainly focused on the highly prospective Lafigué target where a large mineralised vein system was defined over an area 2.5 km long by 0.6 km wide, remaining open at depth and towards the east. All available data is being interpreted and a maiden resource estimate is expected to be published in Q4, 2018 and a follow-up drilling programme is scheduled to start in Q4, 2018. In addition, a gold-in-soil geochemical campaign was recently completed. Its preliminary assessment indicates the occurrence of additional targets located in proximity to Lafigué, where a drill programme has been scheduled for 2019. “We are pleased to continue to deliver against our two key objectives from our five-year exploration strategy outlined in 2016. Following the significant near-mine exploration success already achieved, in line with our first objective of extending mine lives, we are now excited to report the results from Fetekro, which is our most advanced greenfield exploration property,” says Endeavour Mining executive VP for exploration and growth Patrick Bouisset. “The Lafigué target, located within the Fetekro property, has been the primary focus of our recent greenfield exploration programme. The discovery of extensive mineralisation over such a large area, coupled with the identification of nearby prospects, is very encouraging. “We are eager to publish a maiden resource later this year, which may bring us one step closer to achieving our second key objective within our five-year exploration programme – that of discovering of a standalone greenfield project in West Africa,” he says. Three main mineralised zones have been identified at the Lafigué target (Lafigué South, Center, and North), with Lafigué Center and North remaining open at depth and towards the southeast. To date all preliminary test work results indicate a high gravity recoverable gold content and easy gravity tails leach with low final residues. In this preliminary test work, total gold recovery has been higher than 95%. Preliminary assessments of the recently performed gold-in-soil geochemistry indicates the occurrence of other nearby anomalies close by Lafigué. Once finalised, this analysis will help provide additional targets to be tested on PR 329 during 2019. The preliminary assessment of the recently performed gold in soil geochemistry indicates the occurrence of other nearby anomalies close by Lafigué. Some of these targets are expected to be drilled in 2019. All available data on the Lafigué target is being interpreted and a maiden resource estimate is expected to be published during Q4, 2018. A follow-up drill programme is scheduled to start in Q4, 2018 and to be pursued in 2019 on Lafigué prospect and nearby identified targets.