AIM-listed mineral resources company Keras Resources has commenced a 10 000 t bulk sampling metallurgical test work programme at its Nayega manganese project in northern Togo, West Africa. Togo – Togolese mining and logistics contractor Carriere Mines Travaux Public (CMTP), Keras Resources’ turn-key mining and logistics contractor, has established site and commenced the mining phase (Phase 1) of the bulk sample on time on 27 August 2018. CMTP, which has been operating in West Africa for the past 20 years and currently operates two opencast mines in Togo and has a logistics business reaching into Burkina Faso, Niger and Mali, will provide the mining and screening equipment for the bulk sampling operation and will be arranging all logistics between Nayega and Port Lomé. The mobile screening unit has arrived at Port Lomé and will be at Nayega by the first week in September to commence Phase 2 of the bulk sample. The final phase, comprising the washing and scrubbing of the detrital and lateritic units of the Nayega orebody is planned to commence in mid-November. South African mining equipment manufacturer Appropriate Process Technologies will commence commissioning of the 20 tph scrubber plant at the beginning of November. Keras Resources CEO Russell Lamming says the start of Phase 1 of the bulk sample on 27 August represents another milestone in the Nayega manganese project’s progression towards regulatory approval for commercial production. Subsequent to the commencement of the bulk sample programme Keras Resources appointed Graham Stacey as project manager. Stacey is a qualified mining engineer with 20 years' experience across a range of commodities including underground and opencast mine design, project execution, operations management and mineral resource management. He has worked with a number of leading mining companies, including eight years with Anglo American in the coal and platinum operations and project divisions. Following this he spent four years at mining industry consultancy, Venmyn Rand, focusing on mineral asset valuations and related compliance reporting and technical consulting. In 2008, Stacey was appointed as COO and director at Chromex Mining, an AIM-listed junior chrome miner, and then went on to spend four years as head of projects at JSE-listed Keaton Energy, which included project assessment and evaluation in the Southern African Development Community region. The Nayega project, which hosts a current JORC-compliant mineral resource of 13.97 Mt grading at 12.4% manganese, is fully funded, this includes a management fee for Keras Resources, which will cover overheads and salaries. The entire bulk sampling programme will be completed in mid-January 2019.