JSE / NYSE-listed Sibanye-Stillwater has announced the launch of a tender process to repurchase a portion of its corporate bonds and convertible bonds. The Group will fund the repurchase from existing cash resources, including the US$500 million advance proceeds of its recently concluded streaming transaction with Wheaton Precious Metals International. The US$400 million tender offer, will allow Sibanye-Stillwater to repurchase and retire approximately 31% of its long term debt financing instruments (a nominal value of approximately US$432 million of the total US$1,500 million issued nominal value), thereby reducing annual interest costs by approximately US$26 million (approximately R378 million at R14.70/US$). Neal Froneman CEO of Sibanye-Stillwater comments: “We are pleased to launch the tender process to repurchase our medium term corporate and convertible bonds, utilising the proceeds of the competitively priced stream financing we recently concluded. "The repurchase of these instruments creates immediate value and will meaningfully reduce annual finance expenses and repayment obligations associated with our debt, consistent with delivery against our strategic goals.” Up to US$350 million (including accrued interest) will be applied to the repurchase of Stillwater Mining Company’s 6.125% bond Notes due 27 June 2022 (the 2022 Notes) and 7.125% bond Notes due 27 June 2025 (the 2025 Notes), with approximately US$50 million (including accrued interest) applied to the repurchase of Sibanye Stillwater’s 1.875% Guaranteed Unsecured Convertible Bonds (due 26 September 2023). Each Offer is being conducted on the basis of a separate “Modified Dutch Auction Procedure”, on the further terms and conditions contained in the applicable tender announcements, which will be sent to holders of the Convertible Bonds and/or the 2022 and 2025 Notes, as the case may be. The bond Notes are currently listed on the Irish Stock Exchange while the Convertible Bonds are listed on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange. The Group has retained Barclays Capital Inc. and Absa Bank to act as International Dealer Managers and D.F. King to act as Information and Tender Agent in connection with the Note Offers, and Barclays Bank PLC. and Absa Bank Limited to act as International Dealer Managers in connection with the Convertible Bond Offer.