Private gold mining, exploration and development company Toro Gold is 90% complete with its 15 000 m, 60 hole drilling programme currently in progress at its 90%-owned Mako gold mine in Senegal. Senegal – The programme, scheduled for completion by the end of September, is to investigate the potential to extend the open pit life through exploration of the main mineralised lode beneath the current final pit design. In addition, some deeper drill holes have been sited to investigate the potential for underground mining targeting a southwest plunging zone of mineralisation at SW Petowal and a steeply plunging zone at NE Petowal. Two areas of the Petowal ore body are being investigated: Up to the end of August, 53 drill holes had been completed for 13 300 m with the results of 38 drill holes received to date. Of the 53 holes drilled to date the results for 38 holes (PWD362 to 399) have been received. Drilling at depth beneath the pit has continued to confirm the Petowal geological model and mineralisation is being intersected where predicted by the block model. “Drilling has progressed well at Mako through the wet season and is on track for completion in September. We are pleased that the main Petowal lode continues to yield encouraging results and we are looking forward to being able to use the results of 15 000 m of new exploration data and 10 months of in pit mine geology data to prepare an updated independent Mineral Resource Estimate in the last quarter of the year,” says Toro Gold chief exploration officer Howard Bills. Final assays results will be available in mid-October when the new exploration data for the 15 000 m drilling programme as well as grade control drilling data from 10 months of mining activity will be provided to Cube Consulting of Perth Australia, who will be carrying out the mineral resource estimation update through October. A Cube Consulting geologist visited Mako in August to review the exploration drilling and mining geology activities in the open pit.