In a country which hosts the majority of the world’s deepest underground mines hundreds of elite Mines Rescue Services team members risk their lives to react to emergencies situation. Despite a regression in the number of annual fatalities in South Africa’s mines between 1993 and 2016, 2017 was the first year in over a decade that saw these figures rise – from 73 in 2016 to 82 in 2017. This year has been no exception as precious metals mining company, Sibanye-Stillwater has been cast into the spotlight as fatalities at its labour-intensive mines to date account for 21 out of the total 54 fatalities recorded by the end of July. This article first appeared in Mining Review Africa Issue 9 2018 This equates to nearly half the total amount of recorded mining-related fatalities in South Africa in 2018. With workers digging deeper to exploit depleting ore bodies that have been mined for over a century, safety undoubtedly becomes a priority as deep level mines are prone to seismicity and potential fall of ground incidents that result from this. In light of the poor safety performance in 2018, the South African mining industry has recommitted itself to its shared goal of zero harm through the launch of the “Safety and Health First, Always and Everyday” campaign on 20 August this year. The initiative by the Minerals Council South Africa will be rolled out in the form of a ‘health and safety day’ at every South African mining operation, with each and every mining industry stakeholder pledging to work collectively to improve safety. Mines Rescue Services, a private sector, non-profit organisation that provides rescue and recovery services for the South African mining industry has been on the frontlines of many of the most dangerous emergency rescues in the mining industry over the past 94 years since the organisations’ establishment in 1924, by the mining industry, for the mining industry. With 888 rescue team members that form 133 rescue teams consisting of a minimum of five rescue team members (sometimes a few more) spread throughout four rescue stations across South Africa, Mines Rescue Services members are regularly called out to help with mining emergency situations such as fires, explosions, fall-of-ground incidents, missing persons, as well as body recoveries. The services offered by Mines Rescue Services include the training of Rescue Team Members to the required skills competency, providing expert advice and consultancy services during emergency incidents to all member mines, remaining proactive to changes in technology in the mining industry and providing and maintaining specialised emergency rescue equipment for all member mines. Honouring the badge ‘voluntate servio’, or ‘voluntarily we serve’, Mines Rescue Services requires its Rescue Team Members to have physical fitness, heat tolerance, discipline, a stable temperament and underground mining expertise as an active mineworker as well as undergoing quarterly refresher training courses. Moreover, becoming a Rescue Team Member or ‘proto’ team member as they are also known, requires the passing of a prescribed five-day comprehensive course that entails heat tolerance screening test, workload testing, rope rescue and borehole rescue. While this could be mistaken for an army drill, the recruits are put through their paces to prepare them for the harshest of rescue missions, says Mines Rescue CEO Mannas Fourie, adding that there is no room for mistakes when working with people’s lives. Qualifying Rescue Team Members are subsequently able to partake in a three-day advanced rescue team member training course that enables a team member to either become a team captain or vice-captain. This training covers further aspects of mines rescue, incorporating leadership and planning skills. Fourie says that although incidents in South African mines have declined since the early 1990s, emergencies still occur, and Mines Rescue Services has had quite an active past year. “From July 2017 to July 2018, the organisation has spent 26 days, or 550 hours, rescuing people from seismic and fall-of-ground related incidents that trapped people underground." During this time, Mines Rescue Services utilised 148 rescue teams and recovered 33 people from underground, 15 of which were found alive and rescued. Having begun his career in 1994 as a learner official at AngloGold Ashanti’s President Steyn 4 Shaft, Fourie (42) worked for eight years at President Steyn 4 shaft in Welkom until moving to the Beatrix operations in the Free State in 2002, which was then owned by Gold Field’s and is now owned by Sibanye-Stillwater. During his 24 year tenure at some of South Africa’s deepest gold mines, Fourie worked in several managerial positions and has also successfully managed several deep-level, seismic and high methane gas concentration operations, turning them into safe, profitable entities. A career highlight for Fourie was becoming the general manager of the Beatrix 3 Shaft – one of the biggest, single barrel production shafts in South Africa producing in the region of 180 000 tpm. During his career, Fourie volunteered as a Rescue Team Member and even captained a team during his seven years of service with Mines Rescue Services, having released himself from his duties due to work obligations. Having been a Rescue Team Member himself, Fourie was quick to apply for the position of Mines Rescue Services CEO in 2017 in light of his background and understanding of South Africa’s unique deep-level challenges. It is this background that led to his successful appointment. As the latest CEO, taking over the reins from his predecessor Christo De Klerk, who served as the CEO between 1998 until 2017, Fourie aims to uphold the high standards that exist within the organisation while bringing his own level of business acumen into the organisation to ensure that Mines Rescue Services is able to withstand and grow despite the difficulties being faced by the mining industry in the current environment. Since becoming CEO in May 2017, Fourie embarked on a remembrance trail as a means to recall lost lives and the circumstances surrounding major mine emergency incidents throughout the history of Mines Rescue Services. Not only recalling the lost lives of mineworkers, Fourie remembers the 38 Mines Rescue Services Rescue Team Members that tragically lost their lives in the line of duty. Committed to zero harm on all levels, Fourie has tasked himself to protect the lives of every rescue team member during his time in office, to ensure that no further Rescue Team Member lose their lives during service. Fourie explains that the depths of South Africa’s mines contribute to the high level of seismicity, and while South Africa’s mines have world-class mining methods, policies and procedures, standards and systems of work in place to mitigate and manage seismicity, the deeper and more mined out these mines become the more prone they become to seismicity and fall-of-ground incidents. Most important to ensuring safety are the people. Many accidents are caused not because the systems implemented have failed or were insufficient, but the persons required to implement the systems failed to do so. As a result, Fourie emphasises the need to nurture a culture of compliance within the organisation. This, Fourie believes, is critical to address as an increase in fatalities compounded by an already restless workforce and low productivity levels. “Unhappy workers are not focused and other distractions displace safety,” he points out. Mines Rescue Services is part of the International Mines Rescue Body (IMRB) – an organisation formed to promote mines rescue at an international level and to improve mine rescue knowledge and practices by supporting global cooperation. Fourie emphasises the importance of the body as a means to share information amongst organisations about methods of training, rescue techniques, incidents and equipment as a means to learn from other industry experts. South Africa, one of the first signatory nations of the IMRB, hosted the biennial IMRB conference for the first time in 2003 and will again host the conference 20 years later in 2023 – this will coincide with Mines Rescue Services 100th centenary as an organisation. You can read the full digital magazine here or subscribe here to receive a print copy