Avesoro Resources has successfully increased the Measured and Indicated Mineral Resource at its New Liberty Gold Mine in Liberia to more than 1.1 Moz. West Africa - “The completion of the infill drilling campaign at New Liberty has improved the confidence in the estimated tonnes and grade of a portion of Inferred material located below the current designed pit floor and within a US$1,300/oz pit shell," comments Avesoro CEO, Serhan Umurhan. "The intercepts encountered during the drill campaign have either met or exceeded our expectations and we have been able to successfully convert 241 koz ounces of Inferred material into the Indicated Mineral Resource category. "This significant improvement in the confidence level of resources at New Liberty has led us to look at options for how best to maximise the project economics at the mine. "These options include the possible transitioning from the current open pit only mine plan to a smaller open pit combined with an underground operation. "We are now commencing PFS level geotechnical and hydrological studies to confirm the assumptions used in our internal study and anticipate that we will have a full PFS level underground mining study completed during Q1 2019. "In addition to evaluating underground mining of the existing Indicated Mineral Resources, we have also mobilised 6 diamond drill rigs and commenced an underground focused drill programme of 33,000 metres and 83 holes targeting the plunging high-grade ore shoots, focused on the higher grade, higher margin underground ounces with a view to converting further resources into the Indicated category in support of an underground mining scenario," he continues. As previously announced, an infill drilling programme was completed at New Liberty in H1 2018, with the objective of upgrading a portion of the existing Inferred resources located below the current planned open-pit floor but within a US$1,300/oz pit shell, to the Indicated Mineral Resource category. The programme comprised of 55 inclined diamond drill holes averaging 350 metres in length and totalling 19,500 metres. This programme has resulted in the conversion of a substantial proportion of existing Inferred Resources to the Indicated Mineral Resource category. An updated Mineral Reserve for New Liberty is pending the results of the recently commissioned PFS which will evaluate both open pit and underground exploitation options The updated Mineral Resource estimate for the New Liberty gold mine was produced by CSA Global and has been prepared in accordance with the Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum "Estimation of Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves Best Practice Guidelines". Avesoro Resources is currently evaluating the optimal approach for the future mining and exploitation of the New Liberty ore body in order to deliver strong positive cash flows. Avesoro Resources is now considering modifying its current open-pit mining plan to reduce future waste cut backs from the life of mine plan, resulting in the transition from an open-pit mining operation to a combined open-pit and underground mining operation. Over the next two months, Avesoro Resources plans to complete a further 83 diamond drill hole 33,000 meter underground infill drilling programme with aims to convert a further portion of the 409 koz of underground Inferred Mineral Resources located below the previously reported Proven and Probable Mineral Reserve into the Indicated Mineral Resource category. Concurrently, Avesoro Resources has commenced a PFS level study, including both geotechnical and hydrological studies to evaluate these scenarios. This PFS will take up to six-months to complete and will draw on both in-house mining expertise and also underground mining consultants from CSA Global. After completing this PFS level underground mining study, the Company expects to report new open-pittable and underground Mineral Reserves for the New Liberty Gold Mine. Further to the completion in July 2018 of its 16,200 metre 75-hole diamond infill drilling programme at the Ndablama deposit, located 45 km northeast of New Liberty, the Company has recently embarked on a further 22-hole, 4,200 meter programme with 11 holes completed to date. The Ndablama infill drilling is designed to upgrade the classification of Inferred Resources to the Measured or Indicated categories, after which mine planning and optimisation studies can be undertaken. The results received thus far provide additional confidence in the existing Ndablama Mineral Resource estimate, and as a result, Avesoro Resources has commenced a PFS level trucking study to determine the economic viability of transporting the material to New Liberty for processing. 