Freeport McMoRan (FMI) in Indonesia is using training simulators from Immersive Technologies to prepare operators for Caterpillar’s semi-autonomous LHD operations with Cat Command for Underground. Command for Underground automates the tramming and dumping component of an underground loader’s load-haul-dump cycle. The operator has the ability to control the machine from an office or remote location away from the hazards of the underground mine. One or more machines can be controlled at once, enhancing operator safety and optimizing production between multiple machines. In the past Cat Command for Underground operators were required to have experience operating the LHD R1600G but with the training features of the Immersive Technologies simulator they are now able to train non-operators. The trainees are given 10 hours of classroom training followed by 20 hours in the Cat LHD R1600G IM360 simulator. Upon completion they then complete further 20 hours of training within the Immersive Technologies’ Command for Underground simulator where they advance to practical training and evaluation. “The realism and functionality of our simulators at FMI had to be very authentic as many of the trainees had never been in an LHD. Trainees needed to build up basic operating skills before they could even begin Command for Underground Training. "The blended learning from our IM360 and Command for Underground simulators delivered a seamless training experience,” says Ravitha Sukumaran, Product Manager at Immersive Technologies. Immersive Technologies is the world’s largest, proven and tested supplier of surface and underground Advanced Equipment Simulators to the global mining industry. The company has achieved this unique position by focusing on its mission to increase customer profitability by optimizing the safety and productivity of their operators. Immersive Technologies’ Advanced Equipment Simulators are helping hundreds of mining companies around the world to increase their equipment operators’ safety and site profitability through effective simulation training. The company provides its customers with the most effective Advanced Equipment Simulators available. This is made possible through the formal licensing and technical information alliances Immersive has established with the leading Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEM), including: Caterpillar, Hitachi, Komatsu and Liebherr. These unique alliances provide Immersive Technologies with access to the OEM’s proprietary and confidential machine technical information that is required to correctly simulate the OEM’s machines and is not available through other public or dealer channels.