JSE / NYSE-listed Sibanye-Stillwater and Lonmin have noted the South African Competition Commission has recommended that the South African Competition Tribunal approves the proposed acquisition of Lonmin. This is subject to certain conditions, which are agreeable to both Sibanye-Stillwater and the Commission. The Tribunal is the regulatory body which provides final approval for large mergers in South Africa. Shareholders are referred to the announcement on 14 December 2017, relating to the offer for the entire issued and to be issued share capital of Lonmin for further details on the Offer. Despite the Commission noting a vertical and horizontal overlap of Sibanye-Stillwater and Lonmin’s activities in the PGM industry, the Commission found that the proposed merger is unlikely to substantially prevent or lessen competition in any of the markets affected by the proposed merger. Certain conditions pertaining to public interest concerns related to the merger, agreed to between the Commission and Sibanye-Stillwater, are consistent with Sibanye-Stillwater’s approach to stakeholder engagement and its vision of “delivering superior value to all stakeholders”. These conditions include, inter alia: Neal Froneman CEO of Sibanye-Stillwater comments: “The positive recommendation by the Commission to the Tribunal is pleasing and on terms which we believe are fair, reasonable and in the best interest of all stakeholders. "We are confident that this transaction will not only bring greater stability to these assets and ensure a more sustainable and positive future, but also demonstrate Sibanye-Stillwater’s commitment to the South African mining sector.” Ben Magara, CEO of Lonmin adds: "We are pleased that the parties have reached the agreed conditions and that our transformation journey will continue." The Offer remains subject to the satisfaction or (where applicable) waiver of the outstanding Conditions set out in Appendix I to the announcement of the Offer by Lonmin and Sibanye-Stillwater on 14 December 2017. Such Conditions include, amongst others, the approval of the Offer by the Tribunal and the approvals of Lonmin and Sibanye-Stillwater shareholders and the courts of England and Wales. Both Sibanye-Stillwater and Lonmin remain fully committed to the Offer.