Gold Fields has once again been ranked the top South African mining company on the prestigious Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) benchmarking database. The 2018 DJSI scorecard, which was published today, shows that Gold Fields’ sustainability practices rank with the best of resources companies worldwide. Gold Fields is ranked 4th among around 60 mining companies assessed and the 3rd best global gold company. Gold Fields is also an index component of the DJSI. The company has participated in the DJSI assessment, which is carried out by investment firm RobecoSAM on behalf of the DJSI, since 2000. Launched in 1999, the DJSI ranks the performance of global sustainability leaders, through an annual assessment of the world's 4,000 largest public companies. The DJSI measures a range of management practices surrounding economic, environmental and social engagement approaches. These include issues such as commitment to and reporting on corporate governance, climate strategy, water related risks, human rights and social impacts on communities. "Our continued strong performance on the DJSI shows us that we are on the right track in terms of fully integrating sustainability into our business," comments Gold Fields CEO, Nick Holland. "But there always will be areas of improvement, particularly in further strengthening our relations with impacted host communities. "It is essential that the industry’s sustainable business practices incorporate high standards of safety and health practices, sound environmental stewardship and pro-active community engagement, including shared value creation with communities," Holland adds. Manjit Jus, Head of ESG Ratings at RobecoSAM, congratulated Gold Fields for being included in the DJSI. “Companies that compete for a coveted place in the DJSI challenge themselves to continuously improve their sustainability practices and we are pleased to see that the number of companies that commit to achieving measurable positive impacts continue to rise,” Jus says.