The DRC’s MD Services has established itself as a leading staff recruitment and HR management specialist across the country. Laura Cornish had the opportunity to sit down with M. Mudogo Rainizana Didi at this year’s DRC Mining Week conference and exhibition to talk about the company’s achievements, capabilities and growth strategy moving forward. Although only established four years ago in 2014, MD Services has made quick headway in establishing itself as the ‘go-to’ staff recruitment and HR management business in the DRC. MD Services is recognised across the country for its services and mining companies have come to rely on Didi and his team to assist in ensuring they have the right combination of local employees with legitimate access to designated expatriates to explore, develop and run successful mining operations in the country. As a fully-fledged Congolese company, MD Services understands the DRC – its cultures, its legislation and its determination to become recognised as a mining destination of choice across the globe. “Not only do we understand our country and how to operate within it, we enable our mining partners to focus on what they do best, by supporting them with the correct personnel who are trained and prepared for the positions we help fulfil. We have established ourselves as a reliable and trustworthy partner,” highlights Didi, who has been specialising in these fields for more than 10 years. Now, having established a solid footprint and track record across one of Africa’s largest countries, MD Services is eager to expand the company’s presence further afield and is already making significant headway in South Africa and Uganda. “We need to source and build relationships with the right partners in these countries but we are committed to doing so gradually and will take the time necessary to establish ourselves properly in order to achieve the same successes as we have in our home country.” Beyond South Africa and Uganda, Didi has also set his sights on Madagascar and Rwanda and has started talking to potential business partners in each country. With such high ambitions and a lengthy list of satisfied customers – which extends to the agricultural and oil sectors – MD Services is on track to build a stronger and bigger organisation.