At Dromex we believe that all employees are entitled to maximum protection and that employers should never have to compromise on the quality of the protective products they supply. As one of the leaders in the category we believe it is our responsibility to supply products that will deliver on this promise and it is not something we take lightly. Our continued support for Electra Mining, as the platinum sponsor, is testament to this belief, as the event gives us the opportunity to increase awareness of our quality PPE & Specialised Workwear ranges. Innovations such as our new Dromex BSD Arc Visor, which features a polycarbonate lens for realistic colour reproduction against Arc flash, allows us to set new standards in safety. The mining sector in Africa has a need for reliable and affordable PPE. These two qualities can sometimes be at odds with each other. Our supply model allows us to offer maximum safety at the best possible prices, and this is why we felt the need to showcase our brand to the industry at Electra Mining and other such platforms. Our brand has come a long way since we first appeared at Electra Mining in 2014. Our original stand was 50 sqm but visitors this year will see a much larger stand befitting our stature as a main sponsor and leader in the category. Our existing products will be on display, as well as two innovative new specialised ranges that will have a significant impact on high-risk professions. Safety practices and statistics within the mining industry are under regular review due to the life-threatening hazards that men and women encounter in sometimes unpredictable environments. ‘Zero Deaths’ is the ultimate goal, and life-saving quality PPE is a necessity – not a luxury. As the importance of health & safety across the South African industry comes under scrutiny, you can expect Dromex to set the pace by providing innovative PPE solutions. This will include the introduction of specialist items and ranges that have been previously difficult and costly to acquire. At Dromex we know that the value of PPE doesn’t just lie in the product itself, but also in education for correct usage and application. In line with this, we’re sponsoring SAIOSH workshops on a national level to bring awareness and knowledge to Health & Safety Officers from all industries including Mining, Construction and Automotive to name just a few. Our commitment to the industry doesn’t end there. We also offer onsite PPE Assessment service, product matching, technical backup and Fit Tests. For ultimate peace of mind, all Dromex products are tested to international standards and have the necessary EN Certifications, NRCS and SABS approvals. We stand by our belief that everyone is entitled to maximum protection. Visit us at Electra Mining to see how we can help your brand be part of the journey to safety.