The United Nations General Assembly is now calling for the establishment of prevention programmes to reduce Tuberculosis among miners and other workers exposed to silica dust. This declaration was released in advance of the first ever UN General Assembly High-level Meeting on TB on September 26, 2018. Occupational Knowledge International (OK International) spearheaded this effort at the UN to recognise the need for prevention in the workplace for the first time. The organisation estimates that 300,000 new cases can be prevented each year with appropriate workplace interventions. Miners and others working in dusty environments have a four times greater risk of acquiring active TB. Also, reducing silica dust in the workplace with improved ventilation, water spray misting, and personal protective equipment is an effective strategy to reduce the incidence of TB in high burden countries. These measures also help to prevent cases of silicosis, lung cancer, and other autoimmune diseases among workers. “The UN General Assembly is taking an important step in highlighting the need for governments and global health funders to invest in primary prevention to reduce silica dust hazards in high-risk workplaces," comments Perry Gottesfeld, executive director of OK International. "This UN action recognises that we can take action to prevent and not just treat it.” “Treatment costs for a single case of the most drug resistant TB can exceed $40,000 per patient in Africa and hundreds of thousands of dollars in the U.S.” he adds. The UN declaration specifically asks countries to commit to “implementing primary prevention in high-risk occupations by reducing silica dust exposures in mining, construction and other dusty workplaces.” There are 230 million workers exposed to silica dust on the job and the majority are in countries with the highest prevalence rates of TB. The UN declaration also highlights the link to HIV. Workers that are HIV positive with silicosis face a near death sentence as the combination increases the risk of acquiring active TB by 15 times. In fact, TB is leading cause of death among those living with HIV. “This is the first time there has been recognition among governments that we can actively prevent cases of TB among workers who are at greatest risk," notes Dr. Roberto Lucchini, director of the division of Occupational Medicine at the Icahn School of Medicine. Given the difficulty and cost of treating even a single case of multi-drug resistant TB, the UN action can save lives but is also cost effective,” he continues.