West African gold developer and explorer Tietto Minerals soil sampling programme has confirmed gold-in-soil anomalism over a 65 km corridor within the Abujar gold project. West Africa - The confirmation follows the receipt of results for a soil sampling programme completed at the Abujar North tenement, one of three tenements that comprise its Abujar gold project in the central west of Côte d’Ivoire. “We have now confirmed 65 km of gold-in-soil anomalism across three tenements at Abujar, with these results demonstrating the Abujar gold project has mineral province scale," comments Tietto Minerals MD, Dr Caigen Wang. “The high grades seen in the gold-in-soil results are a solid vindication of the Company’s
exploration model. "We will systematically explore this prospective corridor to deliver a series of drill-ready targets. “We also remain focussed on building our resource base with an upgrade planned for the
end of year. "We have two drill rigs double shifting, one AMS RC drill rig and our own diamond drill rig. We are drilling for depth extensions at Gludehi (AG) and looking to add higher grade near-surface oxide and shallow depth fresh mineralisation to our inventory from current drilling at Pischon (AP) and Golikro (AGO)," he continues. Tietto Minerals collected soil samples at 400 m by 50 m spacing over a 4 km wide structural corridor within the Abujar North tenement in May-June 2018. Assay results reveal that the gold mineralisation corridor previously defined by four drilling campaigns at the Abujar Middle tenement extends 25km from the southern boundary of the tenement towards the northern boundary of the tenement. Tietto Minerals plans to carry out further geochem work, IP survey and aeromagnetics survey in the coming dry season to define drilling targets. Following up on the 15 km gold corridor identified within the Abujar South tenement, Tietto Minerals completed infill soil geochem programs in Q2 2018 over five identified targets. The regional gold anomalous data define a possible dominant NNE-SSW structural grain of the Birimian trend that is in line with the defined gold mineralisation corridor in the Abujar Middle tenement. The Company plans further infill soil geochem work and auger drilling in Q4 2018. Four drilling campaigns completed on the Abujar Middle tenement prior to the
current drilling campaign have demonstrated continuous gold mineralisation along the strike of the gold in soil anomalous corridor. Previous outcomes have included: