BME will be launching its new AXXIS central blasting system at the international Electra Mining exhibition at Nasrec in Johannesburg 10-14 September 2018. Alongside a range of BME products that will be featured on its stand at Electra Mining will be an interactive display allowing visitors to experience the ease of using the central blasting system (CBS), and to understand the many benefits of the system in a simulated underground environment using augmented reality (AR) technology. The new AXXIS CBS system allows underground mining operations to initiate blasts from a safe and convenient place on surface, bringing the benefits of electronic detonation technology to underground mining. The system allows real-time local monitoring – as well as remote access monitoring capabilities – which allow quicker decision making and better operational transparency in the underground environment. BME’s world record breaking AXXIS surface system will also be featured at Electra Mining, and visitors will be able to log detonators ‘on the block’, allocate timing designs and fire a virtual blast. The company is the largest provider of emulsion explosives to South Africa’s opencast mining sector, and has been a pioneer in leveraging electronic detonation technology to achieve higher quality and more cost effective blasts across a range of commodities. Its AXXIS system last year facilitated a record blast at Kansanshi, Africa’s largest copper mine, initiating 6,690 electronic delay detonators in one blast. BME is the leading supplier of explosives and services to the African mining, quarrying and construction industries. Focusing on safety, supply security and value adding technical services, BME strives to remain at the forefront of technology by regularly participating in the research and trials of new blasting techniques and products, as well as attending and presenting at technical conferences worldwide. BME has operations in Angola, Botswana, Burkina Faso, DRC, Malawi, Mali, Mauritania, Namibia, South Africa, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Swaziland, Zambia, Zimbabwe and where opportunities present themselves.