What is believed to be the largest excavator in Africa – the SY750 – has been launched by Goscor Earth Moving, part of the Goscor Group, and official distributor of SANY. The 750 t SY750 excavator is ideal to load blasted material onto articulated dump trucks (ADTs), as well as for stripping top soil and free digging from opencast to alluvial diamond mining, Andre Steenkamp, General Manager of the SANY range under Goscor Earth Moving, explains. For example, the 4.2 m3 bucket means that a 40 t ADT can be loaded in less than seven passes. “This is a highly affordable, large excavator.” Such has been the success of the SY750 to date that only the second unit to be imported from China by Goscor Earth Moving has already been pre-sold prior to delivery. In addition, a major Zambian copper mine has ordered four units on a trial basis, which has been so successful that it has ordered an additional six units. “The SY750 will definitely carve a niche for itself in the market, due to its reliable power source and impeccable back-up from Goscor Earth Moving,” Steenkamp notes. The Isuzu 6WG1X engine delivers a maximum torque of 2 138 Nm at 1 500 rpm. “Hence the excavator has sufficient horsepower to get the job done quietly and efficiently and, perhaps most importantly, without breaking the bank.” The Isuzu engine brand is known particularly for its durability and fuel economy, and is an integral part of SANY’s strategy to source only the best and most cost-effective components for its equipment. For example, Kawasaki pumps are also used to ensure constant hydraulic flow. In addition, the SY750 features a self-diagnostic system that flags any technical issues quickly, thereby reducing downtime. The standard warranty allows for care-free digging for the first year-and-a-half, or 3 000 hours, whichever is achieved first. The SY750 has a maximum digging depth of 7 620 mm, and a maximum excavating distance of 12 050 mm. The maximum digging height is 11 200 mm, while the maximum dumping height is 7 250 mm. It has a 7 m boom and a 3 m arm. This translates into a bucket digging force of 402 kN and an arm digging force of 345 kN. While the SANY brand is fairly new in the mining industry in South Africa, especially in surface mining, Steenkamp expects the addition of the SY750 to allow Goscor Earth Moving to offer complete solutions for its mining customers, no matter the size of the operation. “SANY is on a par with well-known competitor brands when it comes to technology, but at a fraction of the price. It also innovates constantly, and will be launching two new products at bauma China in Shanghai in November,” Steenkamp reveals. Commenting on the prevailing business environment for mining equipment, Steenkamp points out that more work is becoming available, which means that product demand is expected to increase. “There has been such a low demand for prolonged periods that a lot of companies have spare capacity when it comes to replacing equipment, once this is depleted we anticipate increased demand,” he concludes.