Backed by 46 years of experience accumulated since its inaugural event, Electra Mining Africa is seen as a gateway into Africa. The show continues to win favour with Africa’s mining and related industries and will be offering even more this year with over 900 exhibitors, showcasing the latest innovations, technologies and trends. It’s much more than a show – it’s a tradition - and this year there is more value for our visitors than ever before, Specialised Exhibitions Montgomery says MD, Gary Corin. “There will be an exciting line-up of new products and services, live demonstrations and free-to-attend seminars at this year’s Electra Mining Africa and visitors will benefit from the insight and information they will gain,” states Corin. Electra Mining Africa is ranked as one of the largest mining shows in the world and is the biggest mining, manufacturing, electrical and power trade show in southern Africa. This year it will take place from 10-14 September at the Expo Centre in Nasrec,Johannesburg. Corin notes that mining and related industries have been through a number of changes over the years – there have been good times and challenging times and believes that Electra Mining Africa has mirrored a lot of the changes experienced in the market place. “The continued success of the event over the years is, in its own way, due to it having embedded itself as a South Africa brand. We work closely together with industry to ensure that the show matches the industry’s needs. This has enabled us to adapt the show to reflect the changes within the respective industries that it services,” states Corin. “From previous visitor statistics, we know that over 72% of visitors to the show are purchasing decision-makers and influencers and that 82% of visitors are there to source new products and learn about the latest trends and technologies,” he adds. Corin highlights that at this year’s Electra Mining Africa there is a substantial focus on visitor activation. “We are very mindful that people are investing their own time to travel to and attend the event and so the visitor experience must be beneficial and meet their needs. We have created an experience where all five senses will be engaged,” he comments. Event and portfolio director for Electra Mining Africa, Charlene Hefer, explains that this year each day will be themed differently - Five days, five themes. She illustrates that DAY ONE is the Artisans Training Centre, developed in partnership with The SAJ Competency Training Institute and the South African Equipment Export Council (SACEEC). This will run for all five days. “Test your skills and you could win a prize. Disciplines include electrical, fitting, welding, millwright and CNC programming tool, amongst others.” On DAY TWO exhibitors have been invited to enter their new products to be judged by the supporting partner, the South African Equipment Export Council (SACEEC). “Visitors will be able to see who was judged tops. It will be a day focusing on the top ranked new products at Electra Mining Africa. On DAY THREE Hefer explains that as a show that belongs to the industries it represents, Electra Mining Africa will be celebrating its heritage as a proudly South African exhibition. All things local will be promoted on this day. DAY FOUR has been allocated to focus on safety because it is ever growing in importance with every employee having the right to work in a safe environment. Electra Mining Africa will be putting the spotlight on safety on the Thursday and will be showcasing the latest innovations and safety trends. The FIFTH and final day of the show is diversity day. “Electra Mining Africa is not just a mining show. It covers many other sectors including industrial, transport, electrical, construction and more. The final day is where visitors are invited to explore this diversity and to celebrate this multiplicity,” she comments. Transport Expo will be co-sharing with Electra Mining Africa is Elenex Africa and will showcase all products and services in the trucking, transport and logistics industries alongside Powerex, which is a platform to showcase power generation, power transmission and distribution, power application and renewable energy. Further, Hefer mentions that after being so well received, the newly launched free-to-attend seminars at Electra Mining Africa 2016 will be included again in 2018, which will be hosted by the South African Institution of Mechanical Engineering, with industry experts speaking on a range of topical issues. The SACEEC will also be facilitating an Inward Buying Mission (as it has done so for many previous shows) and delegates from South America, the USA, Australia, Turkey and Africa, amongst others, will be visiting. The conferences hosted at this year’s show include leading industry associations South African Institute of Mining and Metallurgy, LEEASA and Women in Mining South Africa. “I think that exhibitions as a medium deliver a variety of benefits but, specifically at Electra Mining Africa, it’s a known and respected biennial showcase where everyone comes together. "In fact it’s so beneficial that many of our exhibitors have been with us since our inception in 1972. "In line with our heritage theme this year, we are honoring those exhibitors that have supported us over the years – they have made the show what it is today,” states Hefer. Corin points out that as a leading OEM of vibrating equipment Kwatani focuses on engineering and manufacturing customised equipment for mines across Africa and beyond. “Biennially in September, Hall 6 of the Electra Mining Africa exhibition becomes their home. Every year they quickly get over the time, resources and capital they put into each exhibition. Instead they remember how they said yes to new adventures, forged new partnerships and created successful memories.” Kwatani will be showcasing its customised products together with rugby star Tendai ‘Beast’ Mtawarira, at this year’s shows. Visitors will be able to get a sense of the scale of Kwatani’s large ‘beasts’ currently at work in the mining industry.” Another well-known exhibitor is one of the largest electrical products and solutions providers in sub-Sahara Africa, the Zest WEG Group. “They were one of the earliest Electra Mining Africa exhibitors, and the show has played – and continues to play - a very important role for the group. Zest WEG Group always tries to come up with something new and fresh at the vent; the show is used as a platform to go to market with something new. This year will be no different and new technology advances are ready to be showcased,” explains Corin. Additionally, Hefer highlights that Electra Mining Africa 2016 was the first year for JA Engineering Works to participate in the exhibition. “Looking back and reflecting on their experience of the show, they were overwhelmed by the amount of visitors that visited the show during the week and were extremely impressed by the professional manner that the show was conducted. It was a seamless process and easy for their clients to attend. "The Electra Mining Africa trade show provided JA Engineering with the ideal platform to introduce new advanced product technology to the market. “Electra Mining Africa is a must for any business with an interest to showcase advance product offerings for the Southern African Mining Industry. "We look forward in being part at 2018’s show,’ comments JA Engineering Works CEO, Danie van Wyk. Another exhibitor, Manitou SA, has participated at Electra Mining Africa for many years now and continues to consider it as a key event for their mining customers. “Outside stand (OS C13) has always been their spot but has virtually doubled in size over the years. Alongside the expansion of the stand, the creativity of the themes and build designs of the stand has been unique each year.” AR Industrial and welding industry pioneer Kemppi will be showcasing a complete future welding ecosystem at Electra Mining Africa 2018. It is an ecosystem approach that comprises of advanced machines, automation, application software, management systems and human skill. It takes advantage of the full potential of the internet of welding by connectivity, cloud-enabled solutions and software. Corin comments that embracing trends that shape the future is what drives the forward thinking dynamic at Industrial Fluid Solution (IFS). Recently introducing an exciting new superhero concept to bring a bit of excitement to their brand as well as to further emphasise their Powerful Partnerships slogan, IFS will be launching this new theme at Electra Mining Africa and visitors will be invited to participate in a competition where the Superhero plays a central character. MIP Process will launch their new range of peristaltic pumps for the mining industry at Electra Mining Africa 2018 and will also offer the opportunity to view its latest solid-liquid separation and gas cleaning products including thickeners, flocculant plants, agitators, linear screens and slurry samplers. Mixtec will exhibit and display one of its very own mixer designs with a manufactured and running agitator that shows unparalleled design, impeller technology and engineering capabilities. The new agitator design - The EDICT System – is an exclusive Mixtec offering that operates at optimal speed with significantly reduced installed power requirements. “Exhibitions have been around for as long as man has been doing trade and they are still as relevant as ever today. "But exhibitions have evolved and adapted to meet the changing needs of exhibitors and visitors over time. You could say that exhibitions have a solid foundation and framework that has stood the test of time, but with an ever changing new veneer,” comments Corin. He states that as a medium they have found that successful exhibitions globally are embracing new technologies such as social media and digital marketing. Instead of seeing these as a competitive medium to exhibitions, successful exhibitions and successful exhibitors are integrating these activities alongside their participation at these events. “At the end of the day it’s human nature: we need physical contact, we want to talk to people face to face and an exhibition presents that opportunity,” he adds. “As exhibition organisers with many years of experience, we understand the exhibition platform. "We consistently review research findings and conduct pre and post show analysis, to ensure that we continue to maximise the benefits for all stakeholders,” he concludes.