Namibia Critical Metals' first phase of drilling will commence on the Kunene Cobalt-Copper project in northern Namibia starting the first week of October. Southern Africa - Two drill rigs are being mobilised to site with one diamond drill to commence a 2 000 m programme starting on the interpreted westward extension of the Dolomite Ore Formation (DOF) which hosts the Opuwo cobalt-copper-zinc deposit, and one reverse circulation (RC) drill to commence testing the Okanihova lineament. Namibia Critical Metals' drill programme follows the completion of a detailed airborne electromagnetic (EM) survey covering over 720 km2 of the project area. A primary objective of the airborne EM survey was to delineate specific targets for drilling. The first phase programme is designed to test as many accessible priority target areas as rapidly as possible along the DOF Extension, the Okanihova lineament, at Okanihova East and in the vicinity of Malachite Mountain. “We have a prolific number of targets to assess at Kunene and this first phase of drilling is designed to quickly zero in on the most prospective target areas to which we could build access tracks over the past month," comments President of Namibia Critical Metals, Don Burton. "The diamond drill is being deployed to the DOF extension targets because we need to understand the detailed stratigraphy in order to recognise the DOF, which is a relatively narrow target. "The RC drill is being directed to larger scale targets, often under cover where we can quickly determine the need for follow-up definition with diamond drilling. "Given the scale of the project area we will not be able to get to priority targets in the western areas until early 2019," he continues. The Kunene project area is characterised by widespread base metal and associated mineralisation occurring in discrete sedimentary horizons such as the DOF where Co-Cu is associated with disseminations and veinlets of sulphide minerals, as well as orogenic copper, and stratabound Zn-Pb-Ag-V mineralisation. The stratabound DOF hosts the Opuwo Co-Cu-Zn deposit which occurs on the contiguous ground held by Celsius Resources (Celsius) where it has been traced for over 35 kilometers. This stratigraphic package is interpreted to continue across the Kunene project area and has now been clearly identified by the airborne EM survey over a strike length of 20 kilometers. Ground truthing in the eastern end where the stratigraphy crosses from the Celsius ground has found DOF-like subcrops and samples have been submitted for analysis. The continuing westward extension of the stratigraphy is subject to ground truthing that will be undertaken in early 2019. The Okanihova lineament is a well defined structure with strong cobalt-copper geochemical anomalies over its northeastern extremity, however the structure is largely under cover for over 10 kilometers to the southwest. The SkyTEM survey has shown continuous EM responses along its entire strike and drilling will target coincident EM responses with anomalous cobalt-copper in soils as well strong EM responses in the southwest that are under cover. Okanihova East appears to be the eastern continuation of the Okanihova lineament with favourable black shale host rocks and more discrete EM responses. The Malachite Mountain area is situated at the northeast end of the Okanihova lineament. Malachite Mountain has been previously tested by drilling and is known to host low grade but extensive copper mineralisation. EM responses are weak in areas of known mineralisation and more detailed evaluation of the geophysical data is being undertaken to model deeper and to assess stronger responses proximal to Malachite Mountain. The Opuwo deposit is the first primary cobalt discovery in Namibia and has demonstrated the potential for this part of northern Namibia to become a significant cobalt district. Celsius has reported that the Opuwo deposit hosts a maiden JORC compliant resource of 72.0 million tonnes at a grade of 0.11% cobalt, 0.42% copper and 0.41% zinc in the Indicated category, and a further 40.5 million tonnes at a grade of 0.12% cobalt, 0.41% copper and 0.46% zinc in the Inferred category. It is noted that the mineralisation on the Celsius property may not be indicative of mineralisation that may be found on the Kunene project area held by Namibia Critical Metals.