Investments totaling £6 million have been received by Mkango Resources subsidiaries in accordance with the previously announced agreement with Talaxis. Talaxis has invested £5 million into Mkango Resources subsidiary, Lancaster Exploration, in return for a 20% interest in Lancaster. Lancaster holds the licence for the advanced stage Songwe Hill rare earths project in Malawi. The investment into Lancaster will fund the initial phase of the Feasibility Study for Songwe, including an extensive drilling programme starting in the second quarter of 2018, in parallel with ongoing processing flow sheet optimisation and work in relation to the Environmental, Social and Health Impact Assessment. Talaxis has also invested £1 million into a new Mkango Resources subsidiary, Maginito Limited (Maginito), in return for a 24.5% interest in Maginito. Maginito is focused on neodymium alloy powders, magnet and other technologies relating to electric vehicles and other cleantech applications. This includes the collaboration with Metalysis announced in September 2017, which is focused on advanced alloys using neodymium or praseodymium with other elements for permanent magnet manufacturing. A further £8 million will be invested by Talaxis into Lancaster and Maginito subject to completion of definitive documentation and the following milestones: Upon completion of the feasibility study for Songwe, and subject to completion of the definitive documentation, Talaxis will have the option to acquire a further 26% interest in Lancaster, increasing its aggregate interest to 75%, by arranging funding for 100% of remaining project development costs, including funding the equity component thereof. If Talaxis exercises its option, Mkango Resources will retain a 25% interest, free carried to production. "Following receipt of the investment from Talaxis, Mkango Resources is uniquely positioned," comments Mkango Resources CEO, William Dawes. "We are one of very few companies with an advanced stage rare earths project fully funded to completion of a Feasibility Study with a clearly defined development pathway to production. This is complemented by downstream growth opportunities focused on the electric vehicle technology space. "We look forward to working with Talaxis as well as the government and people of Malawi as we move the project through the development phase to become a leading sustainable producer of rare earths," he continues. Talaxis is the holder of 13.6% of the issued and outstanding common shares of Mkango Resources. As such, pursuant to Multilateral Instrument 61-101 - Protection of Minority Security Holders in Special Transactions, the transaction was subject disinterested shareholder approval, which it obtained at the shareholder meeting held on January 18, 2018. In addition to its 13.6% shareholding, Talaxis holds 12 million warrants of Mkango Resources which, upon exercise, could result in Talaxis holding 22.5% of the then-issued and outstanding shares of Mkango. Talaxis has agreed with Mkango Resources that it will not exercise any warrants which would increase the holding of Talaxis in Mkango to 20% or more. Feature image credit: Mkango Resources