With less than a month to go until the 2018 Investing in African Mining Indaba, excitement is mounting among investors, mining companies and governments. “A number of changes were evident in 2017 as we took the event back to being a fully-focused investment event – there were more investors, more mining companies and a record number of African ministers," comments Mining Indaba MD Alex Grose. "This year, these numbers have grown even more. "I’m particularly pleased that there will be a strong financial and banking presence this year – we’ve recently confirmed Standard Bank, ABSA Bank, ABN AMRO and Investec as sponsors," Grose continues. Creating a sustainable mining sector growth The theme of this year’s event is providing the foundation for sustainable junior and major mining growth in Africa and will set the stage for mining companies, investors, governments and media to make valuable connections, learn from experts and gain industry insight. A main-stage highlight includes H.E.Olusegun Obasanjo, the former President of Nigeria and chairman of the Brenthurst Foundation, who will deliver a keynote address entitled “Partnership: A New Narrative for Africa’s Mining Industry”. More discussions will take place at the Sustainable Development Day on Tuesday 6 February 2018, where Jeff Radebe (minister, presidency, government of South Africa) and Mxolisi Mgojo (CEO Exxaro Resources and president Chamber of Mines of South Africa) will be debating the role of social trust in mining. “Following accepting a memorandum from the Alternative Mining Indaba (AMI) at the 2017 event, for the first time ever, Mining Indaba is working with community and civil society groups to define a common vision for sustainable development in African mining,” notes Grose. Innovation focus Another first for Mining Indaba is the Mining 2050 Innovation programme, which places a focus on where companies should be investing in the age of disruption. Industry leaders such as Michelle Ash (chief innovation officer, Barrick) and Donovan Waller (group head of technology, Anglo American) will discuss the latest disruptive technology and innovation strategies. “Mining 2050 looks to the future: we’ll be asking how the mining sector can adopt innovative ways of thinking and technologies so that it thrives. "Africa is competing for investment and commodities around the world, while the continent has a head start in terms of its resources in the ground, let’s not fall behind in terms of planning for the future,” he says. Something for the junior miners too So far, more than 45 junior mining companies have signed up for the new Junior Mining Showcase. These are companies involved in the exploration and development of Africa’s future mines. The showcase is unique in that it brings together all the players involved in the deal making process – miners, leading investors and brokers. Mining Indaba takes place in Cape Town between the 5th and 8th of February 2018. Feature image credit: Investing in African Mining Indaba