Aquila Steel South Africa is determined to continue its fight to acquire a mining right over its Gravenhage manganese deposit in the Northern Cape. Aquila Steel South Africa has applied to the Constitutional Court for leave to appeal the Supreme Court of Appeal (SCA) judgment delivered in November 2017 which overturned an earlier High Court decision to grant Aquila a mining right over its Gravenhage manganese deposit. Aquila, which has invested over R150 million in developing Gravenhage to date and is a subsidiary of BaoWu Group, China’s largest steel manufacturer, has been hampered for several years now in its planned development of Gravenhage by an alleged overlapping prospecting right held by Pan African Mineral Development Company (PAMDC), a company owned by the governments of South Africa, Zambia and Zimbabwe. In a resounding endorsement of Aquila’s rights in November 2016, the High Court had set aside PAMDC’s alleged overlapping prospecting right, upheld Aquila’s prospecting right and granted Aquila’s mining right application over Gravenhage. However, late in 2017, PAMDC appealed the High Court’s findings to the SCA. The SCA found in favour of PAMDC and reversed the findings of the High Court. Aquila said that it considers the SCA judgment to be incorrect in fact and in law (and this view is supported by a coherent dissenting judgment delivered by one of the SCA judges) and is contrary to Constitutional Court jurisprudence. Aquila contends that PAMDC (and its affiliated company, ZIZA ) should never have been granted any rights by the Department of Mineral Resources and there is nothing standing in the way of Aquila being granted the mining right. Aquila argues before the Constitutional Court that its security of tenure and investment should have been protected by the SCA. Conversely, the parties favoured in the SCA majority judgment have never invested in any prospecting activity, nor demonstrated any financial or technical ability to do so. Aquila MD and CEO Miles Zhou, says Aquila’s application for a mining right has now been pending for longer than seven years. “It is extraordinary that Aquila, a foreign investor that has invested substantial sums in good faith and in compliance with all laws and requirements under South African legislation, has to appeal to the highest court to protect its security of tenure in South Africa. Aquila will continue to take all necessary action to vigorously protect its rights,” says Aquila.