TSXV-listed Montero Mining and Exploration’s assay tests support the presence of lithium-bearing spodumene mineralisation at the Soris lithium project. Namibia – Having assayed for lithium of all of the available reverse circulation (RC) chips from a historical RC drill programme conducted at the Soris Lithium project, the results have been assessed and positive lithium values from inclined and vertical drill holes have been returned from the spodumene pegmatite intercepts. The Soris project is located in central Namibia, north-west of the town Uis which is 220 km north of Walvis Bay, Namibia’s largest commercial deep-water port. The project is in the Erongo Region and is connected by dirt and asphalt road to the port of Walvis Bay. The zoned pegmatites at the project belong to a group of highly fractionated, tantalite-cassiterite, lithium-rich rare metal pegmatites known as Lithium-Cesium-Tantalum (LCT) pegmatites. The Soris pegmatites were previously mined on a small scale for tin and tantalum. The pegmatite has not previously been mined or systematically sampled or assayed for lithium. Montero has an option to acquire an 80% interest in the Soris project whereby upon transfer of ownership will commit to spending C$1 million and completing a feasibility study within three years of transfer of the mining rights. “Montero has completed its preliminary assay program and established significant concentrations of lithium mineralisation within the spodumene pegmatites at surface and at depth on the Soris lithium project,” says Dr. Tony Harwood, President and CEO of Montero. “Surface channel sampling conducted by Montero across the pegmatite returned lithium values over 14 m of 1.93% Li2O. Re-assaying of the RC drill chips returned lithium oxide intercepts over 44 m of 0.96 % Li2O, 25 m of 1.26% Li2O, 22 m at 1.05% Li2O and 21 m at 1.12% Li2O. Montero is continuing its review of the data (including modeling of the existing drill data) and is designing an exploration and drill programme to define a potential resource at Soris.” Although Montero has its own internal QA/QC procedures when conducting a drilling and / or surface sampling campaign, the reporting of historical drilling results was not subject to any Montero QA/QC protocols apart from internal laboratory procedures which included the internal insertion of blanks, duplicates and CRMs. These internal laboratory checks included the following on a total of six sample submission sets for Li, Rb and Cs (54 duplicates, 54 CRMs and 51 Blanks). A review of laboratory internal QA/QC procedures were completed and results returned were regarded as within the accepted confidence levels.