African Battery Metals, the AIM quoted African focused exploration company, has commenced its exploration programme at its recently acquired cobalt-copper properties. DRC – In December 2017, African Battery Metals acquired the rights to 70% of a cobalt-copper licence in the DRC called Kisinka and an option over a second licence called Sakania. Kisinka, which is situated within 30 km of Lubumbashi, the regional capital, is close to seven existing large cobalt-copper mines and numerous small scale operations. It is on the Roan, the geological sequence which hosts most of the DRC's cobalt and copper and is currently being mined by small scale mining operations selling cobalt and copper concentrate to local smelters. A number of grab samples have been collected from the small-scale miners’ pits on the Kisinka cobalt licence by an independent geologist, who has reported grades of up to 2.5% cobalt from a Niton XRF field analyser (the standard equipment used in the field for such analysis). African Battery Metals’ proposed work programme is scheduled to start on or around 29 January 2018. This programme will also seek to confirm the cobalt prospectivity of the second cobalt licence, Sakania, with a view to determining whether the company should exercise its option. During this period, the African Battery Metals team will also investigate a number of other available cobalt licences, with a view towards further expansion in due course. The proposed Kisinka exploration programme may be expanded, subject to favourable initial exploration results. “Our initiative into cobalt marks a significant step towards the company’s transition into the battery metals space. This is an area that is driven by an increasing global commitment to more efficient and environmentally sustainable energy usage, especially in the automotive industry,” says Roger Murphy, CEO of African Battery Metals. “Our recent acquisitions has already transformed the company and we now have the potential to develop a cobalt-copper project in the centre of the world-class Katangan Copperbelt, which hosts approximately 50% of the world’s cobalt resources."