African-focused junior mineral explorer Walkabout Resources has executed a MoU for a staged earn-in to a lithium exploration licence in Namibia. Namibia – Through its wholly owned Namibian entity Aardvark Minerals (ARV), Walkabout Resources has executed a binding memorandum of understanding (MOU) with a local Namibian company for a staged earn-in to an exclusive prospecting licence (EPL5691) in the Warmbad area of southern Namibia. The license is adjacent to, and directly to the south of Walkabout’s 100%-owned EPL6308 licence that was awarded to ARV in November 2017and will form part of the highly prospective Eureka lithium project. Location of the Eureka project area in southern Namibia highlighting the expanded project area. The addition of the license to the project area further expands ARV’s commanding footprint of more than 2 000 km2 in the highly prospective Orange River Pegmatite Belt (ORPB) in the Karas region of southern Namibia. EPL5691 is host to more than 120 newly mapped pegmatites that are mainly clustered in two areas of the tenement with a combined strike length in excess of 65 line-km. The addition of the pegmatites within EPL5691 brings the total amount of pegmatites targeted for exploration within the Eureka lithium project to almost 200 with a combined strike length in excess of 90 km. The pegmatite clusters are almost exclusively within the Pofadder Shear Zone that lies to the south of the Eureka Shear Zone. The 65 km of mapped outcrops on EPL5691, when combined with the 37 km of mapped pegmatites on the Walkabout-held tenement EPL6308 provide a dominant position for lithium exploration in the region. The inclusion of EPL5691 into the Eureka lithium project also means Walkabout now enjoys substantial exploration exposure to all three of the parallel shear zones hosting pegmatites in the Warmbad region of southern Namibia. “The inclusion of EPL5691 into the Eureka lithium project and more importantly the addition of vast amounts of previously unmapped and un-sampled pegmatites strengthens the company’s position and our intention is to assemble a dominant holding for lithium prospectivity within Namibia,” says Walkabout Resources executive chairman Trevor Benson. MoU specifics An initial earn-in of 51% can be converted to 75% with the establishment of a maiden JORC resource on the licence. ARV will also take over all statutory responsibilities for the license. The MOU is subject to standard due diligence by ARV which is expected to be completed prior to the commencement of exploration activities in the area. A JV agreement is to be finalised incorporating the key commercial terms: Walkabout remains in ongoing discussions with other landholders to evaluate additional opportunities in Namibia.