Junior coal miner Wescoal is positive about the progress of the Keaton Energy integration noting that the process is at an advanced stage and going according to plan. Wescoal acquired certain Keaton assets mid-way through 2017 to further diversify the group’s asset base, realise economies of scale and synergies, expand optionality in contracts and off-take negotiations, as well as strengthen the balance sheet and free cash generation. The enlarged business now has coal resources well in excess of 300 Mt, four operating mines, three processing plants and significant interests in coal supply chain infrastructure. This translates into additional revenue certainty and diversification through production of a range of coal qualities, mining and washing/processing options, customer and sales strategies across domestic and export markets, as well as optionality in contracts and off-take negotiations. Immediate operational cost-savings and efficiencies identified during the acquisition due diligence have been implemented with the combined effect of savings in excess of R40 million a year. Additionally, mining operations at Vanggatfontein, formerly Keaton’s flagship mine, are progressing well and integration into Wescoal is at an advanced stage and key mining and technical skills have been successfully retained. “We are pleased with the progress of the integration programme. After several improvement and efficiency projects were identified early on, these have been implemented in a measured fashion. For example, systems integration with the aim of common reporting and resource management across the Wescoal group is well underway. These projects represent low risk value enhancement opportunities which support the group’s philosophy around standardisation and scalability,” says Wescoal CEO Waheed Sulaiman. Larger portfolio pays off The enhanced flexibility of the enlarged resource base and associated mine infrastructure has facilitated increased run of mine (ROM) production and product variations to service the market as and when required. Total ROM production attributable to Wescoal has doubled to 4.8 Mt up until end December 2017. This is double the amount achieved during the prior comparable period.  The group is well on its way to achieve its announced 8 Mt ROM production target. Elandspruit Production at Elandspruit was ramped up to take advantage of spot sale opportunities and the mine is on track to comfortably exceed its annual target of 2.5 Mt. During October 2017, a new mining contractor was introduced at Elandspruit. The transition was carefully planned and well executed – it was concluded safely and without impacting negatively on production rates. Vanggatfontein ROM production from Vanggatfontein totalled 1.5 Mt during the second and third quarters of the financial year. This is equivalent to 3 Mtpa ROM on an annualised basis. Recently secured surface rights will enable the multiple mini-pits at Vanggatfontein to be developed in an optimal, cost efficient manner. Intibane and Khanyisa Meanwhile, the combined output from Intibane and Wescoal’s share of the Khanyisa complex is approximately 1.5 Mt on an annualised basis. “The combined group is now better positioned to meet increased demand, both from Eskom as well as other domestic and export customers, which have grown noticeably as a contributor segment. This also reduces our concentration and dependency risk to a greater extent,” Sulaiman notes. Growth options The Moabsvelden resource, which is adjacent to Vanggatfontein, represents a significant organic growth option for the group. Study work on the Moabsvelden project remains on track to be completed in the coming weeks. Preliminary results confirm that Moabsvelden represents a significant value enhancing opportunity. “We expect to produce between 1.5 Mtpa and 2 Mtpa of additional ROM from the Moabsvelden project. This will result in us comfortably exceeding our 8 Mtpa overall production objective,” Sulaiman concludes. Feature image credit: Wescoal