Weatherly International improved cathode production by 15% q-o-q to 4,739 tons at Tschudi, 11.5% above nameplate and reduced costs by 16%. Tschudi production results for the quarter ended 31 December 2017:  Tschudi production for the December quarter was 4,739 tons of copper cathode, or 11.5% above nameplate. This brings year to date production to 8,843 tons or 4% ahead of nameplate half way through the financial year. This outcome was assisted by some short-term benefits from relatively-fast leaching of additional oxide ore mined from an interim pit push-back bringing forward some leaching output. The grade of this additional oxide ore was lower, reducing the tonnage of contained copper metal stacked in the quarter. Some early seasonal rains were received on site but they have had minimal impact upon the operation thus far. Mining and stacking of slower-leaching mixed ore has resumed, and the main wet season is now approaching. Construction of the heap leach pad extension is complete. Some operational delays are expected during a typical local rainy season, but the expected impacts are reduced due to stacking of ore on new leach pads rather than upon previously leached ore, and because healthy stockpile levels of ore have been placed on the ROM pad near the crusher in anticipation of rain delays impacting mining. Forced aeration of some panels has commenced as part of ongoing testing of how leach rates for mixed and sulphide ore may be improved under modified operating conditions designed to increase bacterial activity in the heap. Open pit groundwater inflows, and the costs of dealing with them, continue to increase as pit mining proceeds to greater depths, but the flow rates are being managed adequately to ensure a reliable supply of ore for stacking. While the strong December quarter demonstrates the capacity of the Tschudi SXEW plant to operate at well above nameplate levels when leaching rates provide sufficient copper into solution, full year production is not expected to exceed nameplate. As a result of the improved production levels, Tschudi C1 unit costs have fallen to US$4,551 per ton. The Namibia Dollar strengthened notably in December, and this will impact $ costs going forward if it is sustained. Loan draw downs and hedges Weatherly advises it has made no further draw-downs on the $10 million uncommitted loan from Orion Mine Finance announced on 28 July 2017 to accelerate the building of the leach pads and to fund working capital requirements at Tschudi. The company has only drawn down $3 million on the loan. To seek to ensure the loan would be sufficient to meet the necessary funding requirements the company has hedged both copper and currency out to July 2018. In addition to hedges previously announced, Weatherly has 990 tons fixed in July at an average copper price of $7,171 per ton As previously advised on 28 April 2017 as a loan rescheduling fee, Orion has the right (but not the obligation) to buy, if available, up to 700 tons of un-hedged cathode each month from Weatherly until 30 April 2018 at a price of $6,000 per ton. Orion can only exercise its option to the extent of un-hedged tonnes produced in the month and so far this financial year Orion has not elected to do so. The company and its subsidiaries are unlikely to generate sufficient surplus cash to meet all loan repayments when due, particularly in the near term. The company continues to positively engage with Orion on the subject. Feature image credit: Weatherly International