Vibramech has been supplying its vibrating equipment to the diamond processing industry for more than 30 years. “This lengthy association has enabled us to generate an unparalleled data base of successful applications distinctive to the circumstances that prevail in the diamond mining industry, worldwide,” says Vibramech MD David Massey. “Over 3000 pieces of our equipment is currently deployed in diamond mining operations throughout North America, Eurasia, Australia, Africa and India - installed at approximately 150 diamond mines (including marine vessels off the African coast), throughout these regions.” Vibramech’s range of vibrating equipment especially suited to the diamond industry comprises plant grizzly feeders, plant screens and feeders, scrubber and crusher screens, coarse and fine dense media seperation (DMS) screens, rec-rush DMS, recovery plant feeders and screens, tube feeders and grease tables. In addition to supplying mines, Vibramech is also a supplier to the world’s leader in marine diamond processing with over 20 units supplied in the last 12 months to numerous sea going vessels off the West African coast, and another 20 units currently in production. “We firmly believe that the process and engineering knowledge gained over three decades enables Vibramech’s engineers to accurately predict the optimal equipment solution required to accomplish the duties specified by any of our diamond mining clients,” says Massey. The company understands the harsh operating conditions which vibrating screens, grizzlies and feeders are subjected to in the mining industry. As such, the company is cognisant that its designs need to cater for both abrasive and corrosive environments. “Our equipment needs to withstand the high wear associated with the screening of abrasive ores such as chrome, platinum and iron ore. "We also have a range of speciality liner materials, paint specifications and wear prevention compounds which are used to combat the effects of corrosion in the marine and refinery applications. Vibramech even offers the option to install a screen in stainless steel,” Massey explains. The Vibramech design makes extensive use of rubber lining to reduce the effect of wear and impact on screen components. A range of steel, ceramic and polyurethane liners are available to protect screen and grizzly side plates, as well as feeder pans. An abrasion resistant / anti-corrosion Epoxy resin system is used to minimise wear associated with fines in wet applications. “It is imperative that stresses induced by welding are minimised to prevent crack formation in vibrating equipment,” Massey says. Vibramech therefore makes use of heat treatment to stress relieve all welded screen components. The overall design philosophy is to minimise welding and maximise the use of swaged fasteners. As sound dynamic behaviour is essential to ensure vibrating equipment reliability, all equipment is built to perform within strict dynamic parameters. All internal mating surfaces are machined in order to maintain stringent dimensional tolerances. In addition, the company’s quality assurance programme makes provision for a full 3D vibration analysis to be conducted on all equipment prior to release. This is used as a benchmark for the life of the equipment. In addition to continued new projects, Vibramech constantly strives to provide clients with augmentations to their existing vibrating equipment. This enables Vibramech to retrofit custom-made design enhancements to improve on the existing mechanical, wear and process related characteristics of any componentry which may need replacement. Issues such as drive type preference (geared exciters / vibrator motors), increased throughput, improved efficiency, reduced panel pegging and optimised spray configurations are all addressed during the retrofitting process. Vibramech consistently produces in excess of 500 vibrating units per annum and is historically, and continues to be, the foremost supplier of vibrating equipment to the coal, diamond (land and marine) and platinum mines mainly in southern Africa Massey concludes. You can read the full digital magazine here or subscribe here to receive a print copy