NYSE/TSX Golden Star Resources reports further step out and infill drilling results from its Wassa Underground Gold Mine in Ghana, demonstrating the extension and robustness of the deposit. "I am encouraged by the latest positive results from the Wassa Underground drilling program," says president and CEO, Sam Coetzer. "Our objective is to 'fill the mill' through defining additional mineral resources and utilizing the Wassa processing plant's excess capacity and these latest results suggest that we are on track to achieve this goal. "The step out drilling results continue to confirm the extension of the Wassa Underground deposit to the south and the deposit remains open down plunge, which suggests further exploration upside potential. "The infill drilling results also confirm the previously recorded grades and widths of the deposit and we expect to upgrade a portion of Wassa's Inferred Mineral Resources into the Indicated category. "With our larger exploration budget as a result of the funds received from the investment by our new strategic investor, we are focused on demonstrating the potential of this exceptional deposit and delivering compelling value for our shareholders." Golden Star has received assay results for five new DD holes at Wassa Underground, comprising approximately 4,800 m of drilling from surface. The two step out holes further tested the extents of the F Shoot mineralized corridor at depth, both to the North and South. The three infill holes targeted the B Shoot's Inferred Mineral Resources with the objective of converting them into the Indicated Mineral Resource category. The results of five holes on the 18700 N step out fence have now been received, including the two new holes reported today. Two additional holes are underway and one final hole is planned. The two new holes, BS18DD391D2 and BS18DD392D1, are both 'daughter' holes drilled on the 18700 N drill fence, approximately 200 m from the extent of Wassa Underground's current Inferred Mineral Resources. The mother holes, BS18DD391M and BS18DD392M, were drilled from surface and a wedge was established at 721 m and 838 m respectively. The daughter holes were then drilled at various angles from the mother hole and their objective was to test above and below the high grade mineralization intersected in hole BSDD391D1 (64.3 m grading 7.4 g/t Au from 577.0 m and 49.7 m grading 5.5 g/t from 792.0 m).  The results received to date confirm the extension of the deposit down plunge to the south. Two of the six planned holes on drill fence 19450 N, which is located 50 m south of the current Mineral Reserves, have been completed. These holes have the objective of converting Inferred Mineral Resources to the Indicated category by reducing the drill spacing to 50 m x 50 m. All of the infill drilling conducted in the 2018 drilling program to date has confirmed the widths and grades of the main B Shoot gold mineralization, in addition to extending this zone up and down dip. This drilling has also defined hanging wall and foot wall zones of gold mineralization, which are of sufficient thickness and grade to be amenable to underground mining. Golden Star intends to include these holes in the 2019 Mineral Resource model update for Wassa Underground and it is expected to deliver an increase in all categories of Mineral Resources in this area. There are currently five drill rigs in operation at Wassa Underground, two rigs conducting step out drilling (testing the extents of the F Shoot mineralized zones on Section 18700 N) and three rigs conducting infill drilling (for the purpose of converting B Shoot Inferred Mineral Resources to Indicated Mineral Resources).