West African Resources has awarded the underground mining contract for the Sanbrado gold project to highly experienced mining services contractor Byrnecut. West African - The Byrnecut group comprises of a range of companies that specialise in mechanised underground mine feasibility, mine development and mine production and it has grown into one of the most experienced underground mining contractors across the globe. “The underground mining contract is a key operational contract for Sanbrado and its award follows the completion of a competitive tender process and extensive due diligence process examining safety, experience and capabilities," comments West African Resources MD Richard Hyde. “We are very pleased to award the underground mining contract to Byrnecut who have a long history providing underground mining services globally and have current operating experience in West Africa," adds Hyde. “We are looking forward to partnering with West African Resources on the exciting Sanbrado gold project," notes Byrnecut group executive chairman Steve Coughlan. "This project will be our second site in Burkina Faso and fifth project we have operated in the West African region. “Byrnecut will bring more than 30 years of operational experience to Sanbrado and look forward to ensuring West African’s targets are met, while providing a safe operating environment for both client and contractor," continues Coughlan. The M1 South underground will kick-off West African Resources' mining development at Sanbrado with portal establishment set to commence in March 2019. The underground development will access high-grade, free-milling gold mineralisation located directly beneath the proposed M1 South open pit at approximately 120m vertical. Concurrent mining of the M1 South open pit ore from surface and underground will accelerate cash-flow over the early years of the Sanbrado mine life, as detailed in the June Feasibility Study. The award of the underground mining contract follows the maiden M1 South underground Ore Reserve of 1.5 Mt grading 11.7 g/t Au for 0.6 Moz of contained gold, part of the Sanbrado Probable Mineral Reserve of 20.4 Mt grading 2.4 g/t Au for 1.6Moz of contained gold. Drilling completed since June 2018 has continued to intercept high grade mineralisation which has been extended more than 220 m beneath underground reserves, with significant results.