TSX-listed Namibia Critical Metals has announced first results from drilling on the Kunene Cobalt-Copper Project in northern Namibia. Drill results are reported from two diamond core holes on the Dolomite Ore Formation (DOF) Extension target. These holes have confirmed the continuation of stratabound Co-Cu mineralization, like Celsius Resources' Opuwo Co-Cu-Zn deposit on to Namibia Critical Metals' land holdings. In addition to the Co-Cu horizons, two vanadium-enriched horizons have been intersected within the same stratigraphic sequence. Results from the first three reverse circulation holes on the Okanihova Central Target have confirmed widespread copper mineralization in the sedimentary strata in the hanging wall of the Okanihova lineament. A total of six diamond drill holes and fifteen reverse circulation holes have been completed on various targets. Results from 17 holes remain pending. Drilling has been suspended for the Christmas break and will resume mid-January once all results have been received and evaluated. Following evaluation of the SkyTEM airborne electromagnetic (EM) survey, an induced polarization (IP) survey was carried out over selected areas of the Western Magnetic. This survey detected three chargeability anomalies which coincide with previously reported cobalt soil anomalies which extend for over seven kilometers. A fourth chargeability anomaly coincides with an EM target interpreted to be contact related. These new targets will be further evaluated for drilling in 2019. "Our objective in this first phase of drilling was to test as many accessible priority target areas as rapidly as possible,” states President of Namibia Critical Metals, Don Burton “The results from the two holes on the DOF Extension have confirmed that the mineralizing system which hosts the Opuwo Co-Cu-Zn deposit extends on to Namibia Critical Metals' ground. “Furthermore, we have intersected two unexpected vanadium horizons and the DOF Extension has been interpreted over a strike length of 20 km,” continues Burton. The widespread copper and anomalous cobalt mineralization along the Okanihova Lineament are clearly related to a major structural feature which extends for over 15 km and points to a very large mineralizing system which we are now focused on. The cobalt soil anomaly and associated IP targets within the Western Magnetic Anomaly represent a significant developing target over a strike length of seven kilometers." Holes DODD-002 and DODD-005 intersected the DOF on the same section at vertical depths of 15 meters and 100 meters respectively. The intercept from Hole DODD-002 was heavily oxidized and leached whereas the deeper hole intersected fresh bedrock with two intercepts of higher-grade Co-Cu. The objective of these first holes on the DOF Extension target was to confirm the stratigraphic position of the DOF on a single section on Namibia Critical Metals' ground. The diamond drill was then deployed to other targets. All aspects of the stratigraphic position of the intercepts of Co-Cu mineralization are consistent with the DOF mineralization which hosts Celsius Resources' Opuwo Co-Cu-Zn deposit. Cobalt and copper grades are comparable; however, zinc mineralization is not significant in the NMI drill holes. The high Cu/Zn and Co/Zn ratios compared to the DOF intersections at the Opuwo deposit are interpreted as an indication of proximity to the source(s) of the extensive mineralizing system. Further exploration will therefore focus on the identification of potential feeder systems on the property. The Co-Cu mineralized horizons at the DOF East target are also associated with overlying stratabound vanadium mineralization. This significant vanadium mineralisation will be followed in 2019 with further mapping and drilling. Three holes have been completed on a single drill fence which was designed to test the broad copper-cobalt soil anomaly which runs parallel to the Okanihova Lineament and to determine the attitude of the structural contact and its controls on mineralization. All three holes intersected widespread copper mineralization in the structural hanging wall with anomalous levels of cobalt. Mineralization is believed to be related to a combination of metalliferous fluids that have channelled along the Okanihova Lineament and deposited in favourable reductant horizons, and with remobilization giving rise to higher grade vein-like structures. Cobalt mineralization occurs as two types: The potential continuation of the Co horizon and its controlling factors will be explored by systematic drill fences across the Okanihova Lineament The Okanihova Lineament has a strike length of 15 km and the Okanihova Central Target is characterized by strong Cu-Co soil anomalies over a strike length of seven kilometers trending northeast into Malachite Mountain. The primary target along this structure is to vector in on a higher-grade source (i.e. stockwork or feeder zone) but there is now also potential for a low grade, high tonnage copper deposit. Several widely spaced drill fences have been laid out to test the length of the target. The Western Magnetic Anomaly is now believed to be related to a large intrusive body of unknown origin, but which remains of interest due to its central position with respect to the various mineralized horizons and structures, and the large cobalt soil anomaly which covers much of its northern extent. The airborne EM survey failed to detect any significant conductors within the body and it was decided to carry out a reconnaissance induced polarization ("IP") survey along four lines covering the contacts and the cobalt soil anomaly. This survey has delineated four chargeability anomalies of interest. Of interest are the anomalies within the interpreted intrusive body that coincide with the boundaries of the cobalt anomaly. Geophysical interpretations have suggested these anomalies may be related to zones of disseminated sulphide. The southernmost chargeability anomaly coincides with an airborne EM anomaly and is interpreted to be sulphide-related along a contact or fault zone. These represent new target areas to be incorporated into the 2019 drill planning. In order to further evaluate the targets, detailed soil sampling at 25 m sample spacing has been conducted (ICP results pending) along the IP lines. Additional IP surveys may be considered to better define the extent of the chargeability anomalies. The Opuwo deposit is under development by Celsius Resources and is the first primary cobalt discovery in Namibia. It has demonstrated the potential for this part of northern Namibia to become a significant cobalt district. Celsius has reported that the Opuwo deposit hosts a maiden JORC compliant resource of 72.0 million tonnes at a grade of 0.11% cobalt, 0.42% copper and 0.41% zinc in the Indicated category, and a further 40.5 Mt at a grade of 0.12% cobalt, 0.41% copper and 0.46% zinc in the Inferred category. It is noted that the mineralization on the Celsius property may not be indicative of mineralization that may be found on the Kunene project area held by Namibia Critical Metals. Celsius reported that it has commenced a pre-feasibility study on Opuwo, scheduled for completion in Q3, 2019, including investigation of identified value engineering and process optimisation opportunities and the incorporation of an updated mineral resource estimate.