Investing in African Mining Indaba is to host its third Investment Battlefield competition set to take place during the 25th edition of the event on 4-6 February 2019. The event organisers are looking for Sub-Saharan Africa’s most promising mining companies with a market capital of $50 million or below. This year’s shortlist will be invited to give ‘Dragons’ Den’ style, 5-minute pitches and the event will be hosted in front of a live audience and a panel of top judges, including senior representatives from the likes of JP Morgan Asset Management, VanEck, International Finance Corporation and Orion Resource Partners to name but a few. Judges provide instant feedback and featured projects are grouped together depending on their commodity and lifecycle stage. Kael O’Sullivan, Director of Investor Relations at Mining Indaba said: “It is important for junior mining entrepreneurs to be given this opportunity to gain exposure and build relationships with investors and brokers. It not only allows juniors to receive first hand feedback from the investors themselves, learn exactly what investors are looking for and how to increase their appeal but also provides an opportunity for juniors to present themselves as leading emerging developers and miners.” He added: “We want to encourage every entrepreneurial junior mining company to consider what they can add to the competition early next year. Somewhere out there is the next big investment opportunity that could transform the mining industry in Africa and the investors are very keen to discover it. So if you think you have what it takes to be Africa’s next major mining success story, apply online today.” To highlight further its commitment to the industry, Mining Indaba awards the winner with a free exhibition stand and speaking slot at Mining Indaba 2020 as well as multiple publicity and Investor Relations Service opportunities. Previous winners include Thor Explorations and Consolidated Nickel Mines. Applications can be submitted online https://www.miningindaba.com/ehome/283869/Investment-Battlefield/ and close on 15 December. ## About Investing in African Mining Indaba: Investing in African Mining Indaba is the largest mining investment event in Africa. With a proven track record of bringing together Ministers, senior Government representatives, Mining Companies, Mid and Junior Miners, Investors, professional services as well as mining equipment and service providers, Mining Indaba is the place to meet everybody who’s anybody in the African and global mining industry. It is the must-attend event that drives the mining industry forward, provides attendees with an unmatched access to the entire value chain and the most influential players in African mining for four days of high quality content, deal-making and networking opportunities.