ASX-listed Walkabout Resources has updated its 2012 JORC-compliant measured, indicated and inferred mineral resource at the Lindi Jumbo graphite project in south eastern Tanzania by 41%. Tanzania – Walkabout Resources’ updated global mineral resource tonnage for Lindi Jumbo increased from 29.6 Mt to 41.8 Mt (an increase of 41.3%), and was calculated by independent geological consultancy Trepanier. A drilling and trenching programme was conducted over the northern inferred mineral resource area as well as a new mineralised zone directly to the south of the Gilberts Arc graphite deposit. The upgrade and extension programme included 17 drillholes for 1 354 m and seven trenches for 654 m. 51% of the mineral resource that will form part of the initial mining and economic studies is now classified as measured (6.5 Mt grading at 12.1% TGC) and indicated (8.4 Mt grading at 10.5% TGC) containing 1.67 Mt of graphite. The global mineral resource now includes a new inferred resource area which lies directly to the south of the current planned open-pit area and is made up of six distinct mineralised domains. This area will not form part of the upcoming mining studies, amended definitive feasibility study (DFS) and reserve upgrade as further work within the area will only be done post-production. The very high-grade Domains 7, 8 and 9 (5.0 Mt grading at 22.5% TGC) have been extended towards the north, were intersected in all of the trenches and drillholes and remain open towards the north and down-dip. These high-grade domains in the indicated category form the core of the current mine plan, and the newly updated resource will now be incorporated into the mining studies and an amended DFS to be completed in early 2019. The seven additional trenches in the north of the deposit intersected spectacular high grade mineralisation at surface with individual meter samples of up to 44% TGC (LJTR07). Walkabout Resources believes that the visually distinct nature of these high grade zones lend themselves to further high-grading once in operation. “The Gilbert Arc deposit at Lindi Jumbo continues to deliver value for our shareholders and the unique, very high-grade domains from surface are one of the factors that makes this deposit the stand out project amongst its graphite peers in East Africa,” says Walkabout Resources technical director Andrew Cunningham. “We look forward to the upcoming mining studies and amended DFS which will include the extended high-grade zones from surface,” he adds