IronRidge Resources is advancing on multiple fronts including exploration and resource drilling, implementing metallurgical sampling and test-work programmes at the Cape Coast lithium portfolio in Ghana, West Africa. Commenting on the company’s latest progress, Vincent Mascolo, CEO & MD of IronRidge, says: “We are pleased with the progress of field activities at the Cape Coast Lithium portfolio. “We are advancing on multiple fronts including exploration and resource drilling, implementing metallurgical sampling and test-work programmes, and advancing regional exploration programmes. “Ongoing pitting has confirmed significant strike extensions at Ewoyaa which has the potential to deliver additional pegmatite volumes and will be drill tested as part of this programme. “Drilling is currently underway to test the Abonko target and strike extensions at the Ewoyaa project. The airborne geophysical survey just completed will dovetail into our existing datasets and provide an additional layer to assist in regional exploration”. RC Drilling has commenced on a 3,000m exploration programme to test the Abonko target and step out resource drilling to test the northern extensions at Ewoyaa where mineralisation remains open. On completion of the RC drilling programme, the multi-purpose rig will be changed over for diamond drilling; likely in Q1 2019. A 1,000m metallurgical diamond drill core programme has been planned over Ewoyaa with drill pad construction completed, and drilling to commence after completion of the RC drilling programme. The metallurgical drill holes will be twinned with selected existing RC drill holes to meet several objectives including: RC drill hole twinning and density measurements for resource estimation, metallurgical test-work samples, and geotechnical measurements for future mining studies. Ongoing exploration pitting along strike of the Ewoyaa north extension and north-east zone which has uncovered significant additional strike extensions of spodumene bearing pegmatites will be drill tested as part of the Ewoyaa RC drilling programme. New Resolution Geophysics (‘NRG’) of South Africa have completed the acquisition of 1,350 line kilometres of ultra-high resolution helicopter borne geophysics including magnetics and radiometrics over the Saltpond license. The raw data will now be processed by Southern Geoscience Consultants of Perth to
generate final datasets and maps. The survey was designed to adjoin the existing survey over the Barari license and will assist in the ongoing targeting of new pegmatite targets within the portfolio in conjunction with the regional Laser-induced Breakdown Spectroscopy (“LIBS”) geochemical data. Field teams are continuing to pit the Hweda LIBS anomaly, with visible pegmatites reported in pitting. Field mapping teams are continuing to cut access lines onto the historical Egyasimanku Hill deposit (1.48Mt @ 1.66% Li2O, non-JORC compliant) to define and map pegmatite extents in outcrop and historical trenches. Soil sampling on a 100 m x 100 m grid for LIBS and portable x-ray fluorescence analysis is also underway.