ASX-listed Resolute Mining has announced drilling results from the ongoing exploration program at the Tabakoroni Project located 35 km south of the Syama gold mine in southern Mali. An active exploration is ongoing at Tabakoroni with two diamond drill rigs focusing on evaluating the high-grade sulphide potential in the Tabakoroni Main Zone. Excellent results have been received by Resolute Mining to date. Resolute Mining MD and CEO, John Welborn, is impressed by the future underground potential at Tabakoroni: “These new results have extended the strike length of the high-grade zones at Tabakoroni. “We are identifying new mineralisation in the hanging wall of the Tabakoroni shear zone which further expand the potential for underground mining. “Resolute Mining continues to receive exceptional high-grade intersections which reinforce the value of the ongoing investment in exploration in Resolute’s extensive Syama tenure.” “Tabakoroni is an important growth opportunity for Resolute Mining which will allow the company to exploit the extensive processing infrastructure at Syama. “Open pit mining at Tabakoroni has commenced with oxide ore being delivered to Syama on a newly constructed haul road. “Future underground ore will provide higher grade material and has the potential to further enhance Syama’s future production and cost profile.” Gold mineralisation at Tabakoroni is hosted within the 5-25 m thick Tabakoroni Main Shear Zone (TMSZ), a brittle-ductile shear zone developed in carbonaceous shale and siltstone rocks and localised along the eastern margin of Syama Formation basalt-dolerite flows and interflow sediments. The TMSZ gold mineralisation is associated with pyritic and carbonaceous fault gouge. Adjacent sandstone and siliceous siltstone display stockwork quartz-carbonate veins with pyrite disseminated throughout. Stylolitic quartz reefs are developed along the length of the TMSZ. Drilling to date has identified high grade gold mineralisation over a strike length of 1.5km with better gold grades seen where the shear intersects the basalt sediment contact. North of the Namakan pit the basalt is absent in the hanging wall and better grades are associated with felsic porphyry intrusives within the TMSZ. These results continue to increase the dimensions of the high-grade sulphide zones and build a compelling story for an underground operation at Tabakoroni. The current drilling program is ongoing with two diamond drill rigs to fully define the new zones. It is expected that an updated and expanded mineral resource estimate for Tabakoroni, including a maiden underground mineral resource, will be available during the first quarter of 2019.