JSE/NYSE-listed Sibanye-Stillwater advises that violent actions by groups of striking AMCU members close to its Beatrix operations in the Free State province, have continued. In the early hours of the morning on 11 December 2018, various altercations between the South African Police Service (SAPS) and large groups of AMCU members resulted in a
number of employees being injured. Several employees are receiving medical treatment, with one sadly in a critical condition. These incidents took place outside of demarcated picketing areas and in clear contravention of the interdict obtained by Sibanye-Stillwater from the Labour Court on 22 November 2018, the picketing rules which were established by the CCMA on 29 November 2018 as well as the subsequent order by the Labour Court on 5 December 2018. The situation at the Beatrix operations in particular, remains tense, with striking workers continuing to intimidate non-striking workers, cause damage Sibanye-Stillwater property
and restrict access to the company’s operating mine sites. Sibanye-Stillwater respects the right of AMCU members to strike, and upholds the right of employees who wish to work to do so. By their unlawful actions, striking employees are preventing other employees from
exercising their right to work, thereby inflicting financial hardship on employees who do not wish to strike. Sibanye-Stillwater urges AMCU leadership to take responsibility for their member’s behaviour and safety by ensuring that the picketing rules are adhered to. On Wednesday, 14 November 2018, a three-year wage agreement was signed between Sibanye-Stillwater and the other representative unions; the National Union of Mineworkers (the NUM), Solidarity and UASA. Despite numerous attempts by Sibanye-Stillwater to reach a fair and reasonable outcome
with AMCU representatives since the negotiations began in June, but despite having participated in the construct of the final offer, AMCU declined to accept the offer. The average basic wages for category 4-8 employees have increased by more than 65% since Sibanye-Stillwater was unbundled from Gold Fields in 2013. This is significantly above inflation and represents a very real improvement in the standard of living of our employees. The current wage agreement reached with NUM, Solidarity and UASA is again well in excess of inflation, taking the total average monthly package for an entry level employee to over R16,500 per month in year three, but still taking the longer term sustainability of the gold operations into consideration.