Kropz has been admitted onto the AIM market of the London Stock Exchange. As part of the admission, Kropz has raised gross proceeds of approximately £27.3 million before expenses with new UK, South African and international shareholders, and existing shareholders. The vision of the group is to become a leading independent phosphate rock producer and to develop, over time, into an integrated, mine-to-market plant nutrient company focused on sub-Saharan Africa. On 1 November 2018, the company made an all share offer to acquire Cominco Resources, which through its wholly owned subsidiary, Cominco S.A., currently owns 100% of the Hinda Phosphate Project which is expected to be diluted to 90% through the participation of the Republic of Congo. It is believed to be one of the world’s largest, undeveloped phosphate reserves, in an all share transaction valuing Cominco at US$40 million. Kropz has received valid acceptances from 71.3% of the Cominco Shareholders and accordingly, on admission, it will acquire 71.3% of Cominco. “We are pleased to have raised gross proceeds of £27.3 million despite the recent volatility across the global stock markets," says Kropz CEO, Ian Harebottle. "I would like to thank the ARC Fund who have continued to invest in the business and the new UK, South African and international shareholders for their support. “We’re also delighted to announce the acquisition of a majority shareholding in Cominco which owns the Hinda Phosphate Project in the Republic of Congo. "Hinda is believed to be one of the world’s largest, undeveloped phosphate reserves with a positive definitive feasibility study published in 2015. T "The Cominco transaction is in line with Kropz’s strategy of becoming a leading independent phosphate rock producer and to develop, over time, into an integrated, mine-to-market plant nutrient company focused on sub Saharan Africa.” The total number of shares with voting rights in Kropz with effect from admission is 240,228,778. This figure may be used by shareholders as the denominator for the calculations by which they determine if they are required to notify their interest in, or a change of their interest in, the company under the FCA's Disclosure Guidance and transparency rules.