Azumah Resources advised that two additional RC/DDH holes have confirmed the high-grade Eastern Lode at the Bepkong deposit is continuously mineralised from surface to 330 m vertical depth where it remains open. West Africa - The two holes drilled 100 m and 50 m north of BRCD487 to test for continuity within the Eastern lode, have returned extremely robust intercepts of 35 m at 4.70 g/t Au from 148 m, including 11 m at 13.45 g/t Au from 171 m and 5 m at
6.01 g/t Au from 417 m. The holes complement the ‘discovery hole,’ BRCD487, that recently returned a 93 m mineralised zone grading 2.33 g/t Au from 261 m. Drill hole BRCD485 also extended west and through to under the Main Lode where it intersected two high grade zones of 5 m at 6.05 g/t Au from 220 m, and 5.6 m at 8.15 g/t from 291.4 m, including 2 m at 18.00 g/t from 292 m. These intercepts are the deepest to date under the Main Lode, and so also highlight the depth extent of this zone of mineralisation. Importantly, the several wide zones of mineralisation grading greater than 4 g/t Au are likely to underpin the possibility of extending mining underground beneath existing planned pit bases. If underground mining is shown to be viable, this would provide a material increase in production levels and mine life from those being considered in the current Wa gold project Feasibility Study. An interim update of the Feasibility Study and Ore Reserves is planned for release by Azumah in January 2019. “This is another magnificent result in our 2019 multi-million dollar exploration campaign and has extremely positive implications for the overall Wa gold project," comments Azumah MD Stephen Stone. “A completely new geological dimension to the project has been introduced that could see a step-change in its scale, longevity and economics well beyond that envisaged in the pending Feasibility Study update. “Our geological team, under the guidance of joint venture partner Ibaera Capital, have done an absolutely tremendous job in taking the project to another level of geological understanding. “Shareholders can look forward in early in January to some more results from deeper drilling at the Kunche deposit, then later in the month from follow-up drilling underway at Bepkong and then the much anticipated interim update of the Feasibility Study and Ore Reserve scheduled for the end of January 2019," he continues. Inspection of diamond drill core from all three Bepkong holes indicates a very well-developed mineralised system, increasing the belief that the near-surface and deeper mineralisation at Bepkong is part of a much larger, structurally controlled system. With the continuously mineralised 1.5 km long Kunche deposit just 2 km to the south, plus several satellite resources in between such as Aduane, it would not surprise if they were eventually shown to all be components of a much larger interconnected mineralised system extending to considerable depth. This is consistent with the structurally controlled orogenic-style of mineralisation at the project and which elsewhere in West Africa and Western Australia is known to typically extend to considerably greater depths than has been drilled to date at the project. Two holes have just been drilled at the Kunche deposit with results likely to be reported very early in January. These holes were designed with a similar objective to those just reported from Bepkong and, in particular, to test for continuity of high-grade mineralisation in the vicinity of KRC831. This hole intersected 44 m at 5.37 g/t Au from 99 m including zones of 6 m at 3.33 g/t Au from 99 m and 27 m at 7.86 g/t Au from 116 m. Azumah notes that additional drilling is underway at Bepkong to extend mineralisation in the Eastern Lode.