Nuclear engineering students from Zambia in Russia have shared their experiences with aspiring nuclear scientists from across Africa. Students from the National Research Nuclear University MEPhI, including Taonga Mulenga and Edward Msiska, were on hand to share their enthusiasm with three winning teams of the Youth Video Competition “Atoms Empowering Africa”, which took place this year in Sub-Saharan Africa. The teams from Zambia visited Russia, accompanied by journalists from top media houses of the region, to study the opportunities offered to get higher education in the field of nuclear energy in the Russian Federation. Students from Zambia got a unique opportunity to learn about educational programs available for foreign students, as well as to find out about application and learning processes, along with educational grants. In addition, guests visited top Russian universities specialising in nuclear engineering such as the National Research Nuclear University MEPhi in Obninsk (Central Russia) and Tomsk Polytechnic University (TPU) in Tomsk (Siberia, Russia). National Research Nuclear University MEPhI is the leading Russian university with more than 75 years’ expertise in nuclear engineering. MEPhI is the key partner of Rosatom in the field of training high-qualified nuclear specialists. Nowadays more than 1 500 foreign students from 57 countries study there, including over 50 students from sub-Saharan Africa, including such countries as Ghana, Kenya, Nigeria, Tanzania, Uganda, Ethiopia, South Africa and Zambia. MEPhI provides three academic degrees: Bachelor’s Degree involves such programmes as Nuclear Power Engineering and Thermo Physics, Nuclear Reactors and Materials, Nuclear Power Plants: Design, Operation and Engineering, Master’s Degree - Nuclear Physics and Engineering, Nuclear Power Engineering and Thermo Physics, and Postgraduate Degree - Nuclear Power Engineering and Technologies. TPU is one of the leading state universities which specialises in the training of specialists in the nuclear field along with training of professors for universities in Rosatom partner countries. In over 60 years of history, more than 12 000 specialists graduated TPU, including 8 000 ones trained in nuclear engineering and research. TPU is the only Russian university equipped with a nuclear research reactor available for foreign students to perform scientific research on. The IRT-T research reactor has been put into exploitation in July 1967. Now it is used for peaceful atom technologies: nuclear medicine, transmutation neutron alloying, isotope engineering, thorium power engineering. TPU offers three academic degrees: Bachelor’s Degree involves such programmes as Nuclear Physics and Engineering, Master’s Degree - Design, Maintenance and Engineering of Nuclear Power Plants, Control and Safety of Nuclear Reactor, Nuclear Medicine, and Postgraduate Degree - Nuclear, Thermal and Renewable Energy and The African delegation programme also included a visit to the first Nuclear Power Plant (NPP) in the world, which was operational from 1954 till 2002, and now is functioning as a memorial complex. It is located in the city of Obninsk (100 km South-West from Moscow) and includes the first nuclear reactor with the capacity of 5MW and the museum of history of nuclear industry. Also, guests visited Tomsk Atomic Energy Information Center (ICAE) set up in 2008 with the purpose of promoting nuclear science and technologies as well as education across the population. During the hard-driving cultural program guests got acquainted with the history of Russia in line with its gastronomical traditions.