JSE/NYSE-listed Sibanye-Stillwater has advised that it has extended the wage agreement which was reached with NUM, UASA and Solidarity on 14 November 2018. The agreement will be for all employees at its South African gold operations, in terms of Section 23(1)(d) of the Labour Relations Act, No 66 of 1995 (“S23(1)(d)”). During the course of the strike, which was called by the Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union (AMCU) on 21 November 2018, the collective membership of the NUM, UASA and Solidarity has increased to over 50% of the employees at the South African gold operations. Under these circumstances, the Labour Relations Act provides for the wage agreement to be extended to and bind all other employees to the collective agreement. In this instance, all employees who are members of AMCU as well as those who are not members of any trade union are bound by the collective agreement. As a result of the extension of the wage agreement, the AMCU strike is no longer protected and all employees are required to report for work. Employees have been notified to report for work on Saturday, 15 December 2018. The safety and wellness of our employees is our first priority and in line with Sibanye-Stillwater's CARES values, the immediate focus will be on ensuring that operations re-commence safely. Sibanye-Stillwater CEO, Neal Froneman says: “We are pleased that we have been able to resolve this strike, which has been detrimental for all stakeholders. It is especially gratifying that our employees have exercised their right to work and provide for their families, by joining those unions which concluded a fair and reasonable wage agreement. "Their support for an agreement that takes the sustainability of the operations into account while providing for wage increases well above inflation, especially for entry level employees, is welcomed." "It is with sadness though, that we reflect on the consequences of the violence and damage caused during this unnecessary strike, with families losing their breadwinners, numerous instances of assault on employees, and ongoing financial hardship for employees, local communities and small businesses which rely on the mines. "In this regard Sibanye-Stillwater will be considering all legal options to address violence against the company and its employees. "In particular Sibanye-Stillwater’s management is mindful of the financial impact of this strike on our employees, and while the no work no pay rule will apply, we are applying our minds on how to ameliorate the hardship for our employees.”