 During his first State of the Nation Address, President Cyril Ramaphosa noted that the MPRDA Amendment Bill is expected to be finalised during the first quarter of 2018. “Processing of the MPRDA Amendment Bill through both houses of parliament is at an advanced stage,” the president highlighted. The president did not give further detail on the Bill or its final form. According to Peter Leon, Herbert Smith Freehills Africa co-chair and partner, the Bill in its current form would considerably widen the powers of the Minister of Mineral Resources, including giving the Mining Charter legislative force and giving the Minister unfettered authority to amend it. “Significantly, it would empower him to ‘designate’ minerals to be offered at discounted prices to local beneficiators, failing which they may not be exported without his prior consent.  Not only would this likely contravene South Africa’s international obligations as a member of the World Trade Organisation, the granting of such wide powers to the executive would likely not pass constitutional muster.” Despite being warned of this, the ANC Parliamentary “caucus” rushed to pass the Bill before the 2014 general election, permitting only three weeks of public consultation in Parliament’s upper house, the National Council of Provinces. After the election, however, Minister Zwane’s predecessor, Ngoako Ramathlodi, asked now former president Zuma not to assent to it.  Thus, in early 2015, the president exercised his constitutional prerogative to refer the Bill back to Parliament for reconsideration. It languished there for another year, before a new public consultation process was undertaken, which concluded just last month. “The reconsideration process has generated a new range of procedural missteps, and has failed to address any of the substantive problems in the Bill.  Consequently, in my view, the only constitutionally acceptable solution, now, is to withdraw the Bill entirely,” Leon states. Ramaphosa however further noted that the Bill, once enacted into law, “will entrench existing regulatory certainty, provide for security of tenure and advance the socio-economic interests of all South Africans.” Ramaphosa’s vision for mining “Mining is an area that has massive unrealised potential for growth and job creation. We need to see mining as a sunrise industry. With the revival in commodity prices, we are determined to work with mining companies, unions and communities to grow the sector, attract new investment, create jobs and set the industry on a new path of transformation and sustainability,” the president outlined during SONA. “This year, we will intensify engagements with all stakeholders on the Mining Charter to ensure that it is truly an effective instrument to sustainably transform the face of mining in South Africa. By working together, in a genuine partnership, underscored by trust and a shared vision, I am certain we will be able to resolve the current impasse and agree on a Charter that both accelerates transformation and grows this vital sector of our economy.” Ramaphosa has already started fulfilling his commitments on his statements and in agreement with the Chamber of Mines has decided to postpone High Court proceedings in order to enter negotiation stages to finalise a Mining Charter that benefits all stakeholders equally.