 Zambia’s largest integrated copper producer Konkola Copper Mines (KCM), subsidiary of LSE-listed diversified miner Vedanta Resources recently hosted a tour of its operations in Chingola for a delegation of Finnish companies conducting business in the mining industry. The tour was led by Finnish Ambassador to Zambia Timo Olkkonen as a means for the two countries to collaborate on business opportunities. Olkkonen has hailed KCM’s plans to expand its operations and increase production to 500 000 tpa, stating that the expansion of operations was not only good for the company but also a cause for optimism for the country’s mining sector. “It’s been a very interesting and valuable visit. KCM’s plan to invest more and expand operations is definitely a cause for optimism for the mining industry and Zambia as a whole. I can see that KCM clearly has a bright future in Zambia.” Olkkonen also commended KCM for investing in clean technology at the smelter as this was good for the environment. “The Nchanga Smelter speaks for itself. It’s one of the cleanest in the world. I think it’s good for KCM and other mining companies to use efficient and clean technology in their operations,” he said. The Nchanga smelter employs technology from Finland and captures 99.7% of sulphur dioxide to make it as one of the best processing plants. KCM CEO Steven Din said the company had set in motion plans to ramp up production and reach the target of 500 000 tpa. “Reaching this tagert will not only be beneficial to KCM but will also help Zambia to regain its top position as a copper producer in Africa which was lost to the Democratic Republic of Congo,” Din said. The Finnish delegation includes Geological Survey of Finland, Robit, A- insinoorit, Business Finland, Ima Engineering, Sleipner and Normet. The delegation is in the country to explore business opportunities and strengthen existing business relationships with firms like KCM, which has procured a lot of technology and some equipment from Finland.