 AIM-listed Kibo Mining has signed a memorandum of understanding with Tanzania’s state-owned utility company TANESCO for the power purchase agreement of the company’s flagship 300 MW Mbeya coal to power project. The memorandum of understanding (MoU) constitutes the precursor to the finalisation of the power purchase agreement (PPA) with TANESCO which is expected to be finalised as early as the end of Q1 2018, in accordance with the timeline previously agreed with TANESCO and the Ministry of Energy. In accordance with a pre-agreed commercial / technical / legal framework, the MoU sets out clear guidelines, deliverables and timelines for the conclusion of the PPA. The PPA will enable Kibo Mining to move towards execution and conclusion of the final development phase of the MCPP, which entails its construction and commissioning. “This is a seminal moment for Kibo Mining as a signed MoU signals the official engagement by TANESCO and the Ministry in the formal implementation of the MCPP and moves us to just one step away from finalising the PPA,” says  Kibo Mining CEO Louis Coetzee. Kibo Mining hopes to complete funding arrangements for the construction and commissioning of the MCPP during H2 2018, after which it believes it can be in production in 36 months - supplying first electricity into the grid. Signing the MoU started an expedited PPA process that was previously agreed between TANESCO and the Ministry and reconfirmed during a meeting with the Minister for Energy on 2 February “During the 2 February meeting with the Minister for Energy, the strategic national importance of the project was reiterated as well as the critical importance of seeing the project completed in less than 36 months if achievable. The Minister also informed the company that the Ministry is taking proactive steps to ensure an expedited PPA process,” Coetzee highlights. This news follows a month of hard work by Kibo Mining, which has made sure that all relevant stakeholders, especially its development partners, will be ready and in place to immediately commence with this final critical phase of the PPA process. "We will continue to work closely with all the relevant parties and remain positive that the Ministry will honour its commitment to deliver a signed PPA by the end of Q1," Coetzee notes. Mbeya coal to power project at a glance MCPP is Kibo Mining’s flagship project based in Tanzania, where the company aims to build a 300 MW mine-mouth power station to alleviate the acute energy deficiency in the country. The nationally important power project partners with global powerhouses like General Electric and the China-based engineering procurement and construction partner SEPCO III. Feature image credit: