 ASX-listed Cape Lambert Resources confirms the appointment of Philippe Bouchart as general manager of the company's Democratic Republic of Congo-based joint venture company Soludo-Lambert Mining SAS (SLM). SLM has been established to develop and operate the Kipushi tailings project (Kipushi) located in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). The Kipushi project consists of a tailings dam located on PE 12347 and the Kipushi processing plant located adjacent mining licence PE481. Cape Lambert Resources has a 50/50 joint venture agreement with Paragon Mining SARL (Paragon) to develop the Kipushi project. Bouchart, is an internationally experienced mining and metallurgy industry executive with 26 years production and general management work and with over 15 years in the DRC. Over the past 15 years in the DRC, Bouchart has been production manager and general manager of Societe d’exploitation du terril de Lubumbashi for the Forrest Group (in JV with Gecamines and OMG) responsible for the copper, cobalt and zinc production streams, project leader for Forrest Group in DRC and Belgium with responsibility over the copper-cobalt hydro-metallurgical plant, copper cathode and cobalt production and working with Chinese EPCM groups and Korean off take partners. In addition he held the role of general manager of ASX-listed Tiger Resources, Kipoi project in 2011-2012, and was also general manager of Hong Kong-listed, MMG Kinsevere operation when MMG commence the acquisition of several copper and cobalt operations in the DRC in 2012/2013. In his most recent DRC role, Bouchart was general manager Group West DRC for the RPM/Metalkol Cobalt project - which is ENRC’s flag ship project in the DRC. Bouchart had overall responsibility for the completion of a hydro-metallurgical copper/cobalt plant designed to treat over 100 million tonnes of copper-cobalt tailings in Kolwezi. “I am pleased that we are now moving forward with key appointments such as this to advance our cobalt joint venture in the DRC," says Cape Lambert Resources chairman, Tony Sage. "Bouchart brings an incredible amount of experience to the role and has worked for over 15 years in the DRC on cobalt projects and on constructing and optimizing metallurgical plants to maximize cobalt recoveries and returns. "I look forward to seeing the progress Bouchart makes and in getting the Kipushi project in to production as soon as practical." Bouchart commences his employment with Cape Lambert Resources' joint venture company SLM on 1 March 2018. Feature image credit: Wikimedia