 Following last week’s incident at Sibanye where 1 000 miners were trapped underground there were talks for companies to urgently adopt environmental adaptation plans. “Last week 1 000 miners were trapped underground because of a power failure caused by an unusual storm, which knocked out the primary and support power lines of Sibanye," comments director of environmental law at Herbert Smith Freehills, Matthew Burnell. A severe storm during the night of 31 January 2018, caused the collapse of both the primary and secondary Eskom powerlines supplying electricity to the Beatrix operations, causing a power surge and outage at all three shafts at its Beatrix Operations. As a result the majority of the night shift was unable to be hoisted to surface. Emergency power supply from backup generators enabled 64 employees to return to surface at Beatrix 1 shaft and 272 employees at Beatrix 4 shaft during the course of the following morning, but damage to the winder control systems and generators at the Beatrix 3 shaft resulting from the power surge resulted in 955 employees remaining underground at the shaft stations until Eskom power had been restored to the mine. "These kinds of unusual storms and other environmental impacts, such as the water crisis in the Cape, are expected to increase owing to greenhouse gas emissions’ impact on the global environment. "While government has taken strides to curb greenhouse gas emissions (the revised carbon tax bill published in December last year and the obligation on certain companies to develop greenhouse gas pollution prevention plans) it is not enough to prevent the impacts of climate change on businesses and individuals. "It is critical for business to develop adaptation plans focused on their resilience to the effects of climate change. "This is necessary not only to prevent business interruption, but importantly, to secure the health and safety of employees on site. "A resilience assessment will identify key risks to infrastructure (such as power lines, roads and slimes dams) and key components in the supply chain (such as resources for electricity generation or in the manufacturing process) to identify potential risks to the business and potential and significant environmental, health and safety risks or impacts," he notes. "Adaptation plans are likely to become a requirement when the new climate change legislation is published later this year for comment. "However, since the effects of climate change are already upon us, mining companies can ill-afford to wait for a legal requirement to develop adaptation plans before taking action," comments Burnell. Feature image credit: Wikimedia