 The Chamber of Mines has agreed jointly with the Department of Mineral Resources (DMR) to postpone its court application in respect of the reviewed Mining Charter, that was due to be heard in the High Court from 19 - 21 February. This follows the State of the Nation Address (SONA) on Friday and subsequent engagement with the presidency which has indicated that the president is committed to resolving the impasse over the Mining Charter and to facilitate a process of developing a New Mining Charter, inclusive of all stakeholders and in the interests of the industry and the country as a whole. In line with the spirit and the tone of the message as stated by the President during the SONA on 16 February, the Chamber of Mines is agreeable to the request by the Presidency to give negotiations a chance. The Chamber of Mines wishes to reiterate its position that only a negotiated Mining Charter taking on board the views and inputs of all key stakeholders will enjoy the support and endorsement of all stakeholders. “We welcome the president’s intervention, and his commitment to engaging meaningfully with stakeholders in the industry – and others – on a New Mining Charter. Ultimately, a New Mining Charter must be developed and resolved through negotiation, with representation by a broad range of stakeholders – government, business, labour and communities,” says Chamber of Mines President, Mxolisi Mgojo. “For the Chamber of Mines, and the industry, legal recourse was always a last resort, intended to get the parties to the table, and the sooner we do that the better for the industry and our country.” The amici curiae, the National Union of Mineworkers and Solidarity, and the other applicants, represented by the Centre for Applied Legal Studies and the Lawyers for Human Rights, have been advised of this development. Mining community networks not consulted Mining community networks co-applicants in the challenge were not engaged on a postponement, and have not been given any undertaking that mining affected communities will be recognised as a core stakeholder in further engagement on the Charter. Legal representatives for mining affected community networks MACUA, WAMUA and MEJCON-SA were notified of the agreement to postpone the court hearing late on Sunday afternoon. Represented by the Centre for Applied Legal Studies, the community networks are co-applicants in the matter and at no stage were the networks invited to participate in these discussions between the State and the Chamber of Mines. This mirrors the daily experience of mining affected communities across South Africa and is part of the same pattern of exclusion that led communities to approach the Court in the first place. “We have not been afforded the same opportunity as the Chamber of Mines to discuss a postponement, have not received formal reasons for why the postponement is sought, and note that the statement has come through the presidency, which is not a party to the proceedings. We have also been given no indication as to whether the minister will bear our wasted costs caused by the postponement sought. This is highly irregular,” the companies announced in a statement. “There are eight applicants in this case and only one of them has agreed to a postponement,” says Wandisa Phama, attorney at CALS. “It is up to the court to decide if the matter will be postponed, and not the Chamber of Mines, the minister or the presidency. They are treating our clients as if they are not a party to the case with a direct and substantial interest as the court has already acknowledged.” “This agreement to postpone perfectly highlights why we are asking the court to declare mining affected communities are key stakeholders in mining decision- and policy-making,” says Elton Thobejane, deputy chairperson of MEJCON-SA. “It should be mandatory to meaningfully engage with mining affected communities on these issues, otherwise government and industry can continue to make ‘closed door’ agreements to the exclusion of communities who host mining in their backyards.” Community networks will be appearing before the special allocation of the three judges at 10:00 on 19 February 2018 in the Pretoria High Court. A march of an expected 1 000 people from across South Africa will go ahead as planned outside the court from 08:30.