 Dual-listed Sibanye-Stillwater has reported operating and financial results for the 6 months ended 30 June 2017, delivering a strong operating and cost performance across the expanded group in the second half of the year. Both the South African gold and PGM operations delivered annual production above guidance and costs below the guided range. The cessation of mining at the loss-making Cooke operations, which was a primary reason for the year-on-year decline in gold production, is expected to reduce the all-in sustaining cost (AISC) for the gold operations in 2018 by approximately R15,000/kg (in 2017 terms). The integration of the Rustenburg PGM operations exceeded expectations. The Rustenburg operations have consistently delivered solid production and improved financial results, with approximately R1 billion in cost savings and synergies realised in the first year of incorporation, well ahead of initial expectations of R800 million over three to four years. The acquisition of Stillwater was fortuitously timed with the palladium price rising by over 60% since the acquisition was concluded. Subsequent to shareholders approving the acquisition in May 2017, the US$2.65 billion Stillwater Bridge Facility was successfully refinanced by an oversubscribed $1 billion rights issue, maiden $1.05 billion corporate bonds and through a low cost, $450 million convertible instrument. The integration of the US PGM operations has also proceeded smoothly, with steady operating results and the critical Blitz project commissioned three months ahead of plan. “The solid results from both operating regions, reinforces the appropriateness of the decision made to restructure the business on a regional basis, in order to ensure role clarity and sustainable operational delivery," comments Sibanye-Stillwater CEO, Neal Froneman. "The South African PGM operations contributed R1.6 billion ($120 million) (18%) to Group adjusted EBITDA in the first full year of incorporation, on the back of effective cost management assisted by improving PGM prices. "This is a remarkable result from assets which, before being part of the Sibanye-Stillwater Group, had been delivering significant and sustained losses for many years. Moreover, the recently acquired US PGM operations contributed R2.1 billion (US$161 million) (24%) to Group adjusted EBITDA during the eight months since acquisition. "Given the recent strength in the rand, which continues to impact on margins of all South African mining operations, this has provided welcome diversification and supports the impeccable timing of the acquisition,” concludes Froneman. Feature image credit: Sibanye-Stillwater