 ASX-listed Strandline Resources has announced the mineral resource estimate at its 100%-owned Tanga South Tajiri mineral sands project in Tanzania has more than doubled in contained heavy mineral content to 4.6 Mt. The outstanding result means Tajiri is now a large scale project and well on track to become Strandline Resources' second mineral sands project behind its advanced zircon-rich Fungoni project. In light of this result, Strandline Resources has started a scoping study on the Tajiri project, which is located near the port city of Tanga in northern Tanzania. Air-core infill and extension drilling across the priority Tajiri T1-T4 targets has resulted in Tajiri’s indicated mineral resource inventory increasing to 147 Mt at 3.1% THM, up from 59 Mt at 3.7% THM. The resource upgrade shows a rutile-enriched, ilmenite-dominant mineral assemblage with zones of elevated zircon-rich mineralisation within some of the mineralogical domains. The mineralisation also shows strong geological and grade continuity along and across strike which bodes well for future mine planning. Importantly, multiple mineral resources remain open. Drilling has successfully discovered new, high grade target areas along the Tajiri HMS corridor that should continue to expand mineral resources over time. This includes a thick channel-style deposit located parallel to the adjacent T3 and T4 zones. “These results show Tajiri has emerged as a game changer for Strandline Resources. As the next Tanzanian project in our pipeline behind Fungoni, Tajiri has immense potential to create substantial value for shareholders," says Strandline Resources MD, Luke Graham. “Strandline’s in-situ valuable heavy mineral inventory across all three JORC classified mineral sands resources of Fungoni, Tajiri and the Coburn project in Australia demonstrates Strandline Resources' global relevance, with estimated contained zircon of (3.1 Mt), rutile (1.2 Mt), ilmenite (9.3 Mt) and leucoxene (0.6 Mt). “Strandline Resources considers the Tajiri tenement offers the geological foundation to host a major HMS project
and the company looks forward to advancing its feasibility study and mine planning activities,” maintains Graham. Feature image credit: Wikipedia