 AIM-listed IronRidge Resources has successfully completed an aeromagnetic survey over two licences within its extensive gold portfolio in Chad, Central Africa. Chad – The aeromagnetic survey was completed over the northern half of the Dorothe license and central portion of the Am Ouchar license to test the suitability of aeromagnetics within the project area. IronRidge Resources believe that the results generated justify extending the survey. Deliverables have been received from Southern Geoscience Consults, Perth, for the fixed wing aeromagnetic survey flown in December 2017 at 50 m line spacing and 25 m ground clearance by Xcalibur Airbourne Geophysics of South Africa. Xcalibur Airbourne Geophysics aircraft flying aeromagnetic survey over Dorothe main camp Pending results and confirmation that the technique worked, the company had considered additional areas of interest to fly, thus providing useful datasets for ongoing exploration targeting. Results over the Dorothe license show good magnetic and radiometric character, with significant folding and faulting structures evident over known areas of mineralisation. New structures have also been identified directly south of known mineralisation; not previously seen in the field due to cover sediments. This coupled with promising results from ongoing traverse mapping and soil sampling programmes, new artisanal workings and secondary copper mineral staining in the southern half of the Dorothe license provided IronRidge Resources with sufficient encouragement to fly the southern half of the license. Additionally, the company committed to fly the Echbara license at wider 100 m line spacing. IronRidge Resources engaged SRK Consulting Perth to provide specialist structural mapping expertise to help build a structural model and define potential controls on mineralisation at the Dorothe target, as well as preliminary structural mapping over the high-grade mineralisation historically discovered at Am Ouchar. SRK’s structural expert is currently on site and has commenced detailed mapping along exposed walls from the trenching programmes. Approximately 2 km of the planned 8 km infill trenching programme has been completed to date. Soil sampling and mapping on a 400 m x 50 m grid is ongoing within the southern half of the Dorothe license. Approximately 5 000 samples of the planned 6 000 sample programme have been collected to date and the first batch dispatched to the lab for preparation and analysis. “We are encouraged by the results generated from the recent aeromagnetics survey. The aeromagnetics data will help us to understand the structural settings and possible controls on known mineralisation; thereby helping define potential additional targets for follow-up work,” says IronRidge Resources CEO Vincent Mascolo. “This data, coupled with the detailed structural mapping currently underway, will help build a better three dimensional understanding and further highlight potential controls on mineralisation and new target areas,” he concludes. Feature image credit: IronRidge Resources