 Orion Minerals has announced maiden mineral resources for its Prieska zinc copper project. Further drilling will be carried out during the first half of 2018 to upgrade the confidence classification of a substantial portion of the global mineral resource. “This maiden mineral resource for Prieska far exceeds our original expectations for the target tested and demonstrates that the Prieska project can be classified as a giant VMS body," comments Orion Minerals MD and CEO Errol Smart. "It also demonstrates the value of modern exploration techniques and methodology applied to high quality, under-explored deposits. "As we intensify our regional exploration, having recently completed a regional airborne electromagnetic survey, we are confident of success in making further major discoveries in the Areachap Belt.” Orion Minerals has now completed approximately 42,000m of drilling on the Deep Sulphide Target and has succeeded in validating extensive historic data for inclusion in geological modelling and geostatistical estimation. Orion Minerals also looks forward to updating the Mineral Resource for the NW Trough Target and the SE Target areas with inclusion of additional intersections recently announced and assays from six additional holes currently underway. Results from these holes are expected by the end of February 2018. Orion Minerals anticipates that the additional holes will provide satisfactory drill spacing to delineate Mineral Resource estimates with an increased level of confidence as early as next quarter. This will allow inclusion of these mineral resources in detailed scheduling and mine design work as possible sources of feed-stock for early production, potentially enabling the delineation of a maiden Ore Reserve. The + 105 Open Pit Target resource presents an interesting early production opportunity for consideration in the bankable feasibility study (BFS). Early mining of an open pit may bring forward production while mine de-watering is underway. With engineering studies  and metallurgical optimization progressing well, Orion Minerals is very confident of a positive outcome for the BFS currently underway. Feature image credit: Orion Minerals