 The fair value of any company is the present value of future cash flows one expects the company to generate over its lifetime, discounted at an appropriate rate. For a mining company, this free cash flow is, simplistically, a function of commodity prices, volumes and costs. "With analysis, one can get a reasonable degree of confidence around the volumes a mine is likely to produce and the costs it is likely to incur in doing so," discusses equity analyst at Allan Gray Rory Kutisker-Jacobson. "No doubt the future will be different from one’s expectations, but it is rare that a mine has unexpected movements of 20% or more in its costs or volumes. In contrast, it is not uncommon for commodity prices to move by 50% or more in a single year. "As an example, let’s assume there is a mine producing 100 000 ounces of gold at an all-in cost of US$1 000 per ounce (/oz). "With the gold price at US$1 300/oz, it is generating free cash flow of US$300/oz or US$30 m in total, before tax. "If the gold price suddenly rallies to US$1 900/oz, all else being equal, that same mine will be generating free cash flow of US$900/oz or US$90 m in total before tax. "This is a three-fold increase in free cash flow from just a 46% increase in the price. Thus, when valuing a commodity business, the overriding determinant of fair value is the “normal” commodity price one assumes. "But the future is inherently uncertain, and commodities tend to exhibit large and unexpected movements in their prices over relatively short periods of time. "If one doesn’t know what the future holds, how does one know what commodity price to plug into one’s model?," Kutisker-Jacobson continues. In investing, when looking forward, it is helpful to look backwards Kutisker-Jacobson notes that what we know from history is that commodity prices tend to move in cycles with a relatively recurring nature. "That is not to say we can predict the magnitude of a cycle, or when the cycle is likely to turn, but we can have some degree of confidence as to where we are in a cycle. "Knowing where we are in a cycle makes all the difference, as it allows us to make some assumptions about future prices, as cycles tend to be self-correcting. A low commodity price: As demand grows and supply shrinks – both as a result of low prices – demand begins to exceed the available supply at each level of cost, driving prices higher. "Thus low prices create the environment that eventually leads to higher prices. The opposite is also true: increases in commodity prices reduce demand while they incentivise new production, increasing supply and leading to lower prices." "In conclusion, while we believe that it is always important to take a long-term view in investing, this is particularly true in cyclical industries, where overreacting to short-term noise can mean missing out on opportunities or making costly mistakes," says Kutisker-Jacobson. Feature image credit: Wikimedia