Mining Indaba is the largest mining investment event in the world. Over 350 qualified buy-side investors are expected to attend the event. As 2018 begins and the mining sector looks to the year ahead, the future appears to be getting rosier in many ways. Pro-business politics Recent political changes across the continent including the regime change in Zimbabwe and the election of new ANC leader Cyril Ramaphosa in South Africa have already resulted in increased interest from foreign investors in both countries. Both are considered to be very pro-business, in fact Zimbabwe’s newly appointed Mines and Mining Development Minister Winston Chitando has said: “Mining production should increase so that the country gets additional foreign currency and the national fiscus gets increased revenue. The immediate priority is to enhance investor-confidence, with the objective of attracting capital.” Hear more about Zimbabwe’s plans for developing their mining sector from  Chitando at Mining Indaba this February. Gold mine Mining exploration rebounded in 2017, led in large part by a planned increase in gold exploration. With gold prices hitting a three-month high on the last trading day of 2017, this interest in gold looks set to continue throughout the year ahead. The return of the World Gold Council to Mining Indaba in 2018, for the first time in years, offers even more opportunities to network with leading gold figures. Mines of the future The African mining industry has in recent years been moving the focus on the modernization of mines to ensure greater safety and efficiency. This is set to continue into 2018, as companies to optimize scheduling and material flow, track and improve mining performance through data analysis and develop targeted operational strategies. Addressing the power of big data on mining operations at Mining Indaba’s new track ‘Mining 2050’ are Dave Payne, head of technology, Vedanta Zinc, Ben Burnand, MD, MSA Group and Ken Tainton, exploration director, Rio Tinto. Driving forwards As demand for electric vehicles continues to increase, and that sector explores ways of scaling up, battery metals have seen surges in price including a 14% soar in cobalt prices this past August. Meet junior mining companies with projects in these metals from across Africa at the new Junior Mining Showcase. Time to capitalise on this upturn With all these factors coming into play across the coming 12 months, it is a perfect time to join the mining industry at Investing in African Mining Indaba. The event has evolved to ensure that you get the best possible experience during your time in Cape Town. The Junior Mining Showcase and Forum have been designed to bring more mining companies back into the CTICC and provide greater visibility for them. The Investment Battlefield has grown giving even more junior mining companies a platform to pitch their projects in front of leading investors. Reflecting the challenges and opportunities across the industry, sustainable development moves up the agenda with speakers from governments and mining companies featuring, while Mining 2050 looks ahead to the mines of the future and features industry innovators. Feature image credit: Mining Indaba