 Bulk sample processing and exploration activities at ASX-listed Mustang Resources’ Montepuez ruby project in Northern Mozambique demonstrate that the company’s strategy to establish the mine as a world-class ruby project with consistent production and exploration upside is on track. Mozambique - “I am very pleased to report that exploration, bulk sampling and processing activities on the Montepuez ruby project are meeting our targets. These results reflect the skills and commitment of Mustang’s motivated and experienced operational team,” says Mustang Resources MD Bernard Olivier. “The Q4, 2017 plant optimisation programme is generating the intended results with further improvements and upgrades now being implemented. The overall results demonstrate that Montepuez is highly prospective and technically sound. Exploration The ongoing exploration activities conducted during Q4, 2017 and Q1, 2018 have already delivered positive results. The exploration, pitting, trenching and bulk sampling programme has now extended the gravel bed extension from 3.3 km to 4.2 km. At total of 69 sampling pits were developed and processed during the period while a total of 14 502 t of material were excavated and extracted as part of the bulk sampling process. The geology team has also analysed the exploration dataset and selected further targets for additional pitting. During the remainder of Q1, 2018 the exploration programme will focus on identifying further high-grade targets for large-scale bulk sampling excavation and processing, as well as further delineating the dimensions and ruby distribution of the deposit, which remains open in all directions. Bulk sampling and processing During Q4, 2017, significant improvements were made to the processing plant to optimise its efficiencies and reduce processing costs. Average grades increased by more than 10% from October 2017 onwards compared with the total average grade achieved from previous bulk sampling. Mustang is also implementing further processing, sorting and grading improvements to increase overall efficiencies. Ongoing processing of bulk sample material since October 2017 has returned the following results: As at 31 January 2018, Mustang Resources had inventory available for sale of 302 028 carats.