 VANCOUVER - TSX-listed Sarama Resources announced that a series of high-grade gold-quartz veins, extending over a strike length of +three kilometers, have been identified on the Bamako property which is situated 25 km east of the company’s Bondi deposit in south-west Burkina Faso. In addition to historical high-grade drilling and soil sampling results, recent rock-chip sampling has returned grades up to 18.9g/t Au from the newly exposed quartz-veins. The company has also outlined a large artisanal mining area within a 3 km x 2 km area associated with the gold-quartz veins, reinforcing the Bamako property prospectivity for high-grade gold deposits. The Bamako property is part of the company’s 100%-owned, 660 km2 ThreeBee project in the highly prospective southern Houndé Belt. “The acquisition of the Bondi deposit has dramatically opened up Sarama’s options and led us to reassess our suite of properties within reasonable trucking distance of this deposit," comments Sarama’s president and CEO Andrew Dinning. "The high-grade nature of the Bamako mineralisation provides Sarama with various exploitation options upon development, including as satellite feed for a project at Bondi. "Sarama’s aim, is to grow the mineral resource base at the Bondi deposit and the greater Djarkadougou property, and any additional ounces added from Bamako are expected to be highly accretive in value," he adds. Bamako Property Exploration The 90 km2 Bamako property is part of the company’s 100%-owned, 660 km² ThreeBee project which is positioned on the eastern flank of the well-endowed Houndé Greenstone Belt in south-west Burkina Faso. The property is well located with respect to known gold occurrences, being within trucking distance to Sarama’s Bondi Deposit and South Houndé project as well as Teranga Gold Corp’s Golden Hill project. Sarama first carried out initial-stage exploration over the property in 2011-2012 and successfully identified several clusters of anomalous gold-in-soil values. Peak values of 13.6 g/t Au were encountered (mean of 36 ppb Au and a 98th percentile of 179ppb Au), prompting a reconnaissance drill program of 3 700 m RC. The drill program intersected high grade mineralisation in several holes with previously reported highlights of: Further work on the project was limited while Sarama’s focused on its South Houndé project where the company had
made a significant gold discovery. With the recent addition of the Djarkadougou and Botoro Properties to the previously-held Bamako and Bouni Properties, creating the ThreeBee project, Sarama has renewed exploration interest of the Bamako Property. Recent field mapping and reconnaissance work at Bamako revealed the establishment of a large artisanal mining camp, which has now opened a block of current workings measuring approximately 3km-long x 2km-wide. The workings have exposed numerous, subparallel gold-bearing quartz veins, extending for over 3 km in strike length, trending to the north and north-west. These quartz vein trends are co-incident with previously identified anomalous gold-insoil zones and remain untested by drilling. The quartz-veins are located within a wedge of Birimian-aged greenstone rocks which underlie part of the eastern side of the Property and are mostly represented by weakly-foliated and massive mafic volcanic and gabbroic rocks. The quartz veins appear to broadly follow the contacts of the gabbroic intrusion. Recent rock-chip sampling of fresh and altered rocks over several campaigns have also been encouraging with assay results including: 18.9 g/t Au, 12.5 g/t Au, 8.8 g/t Au, and 4.5 g/t Au from sample sites both within the gabbroic intrusion and in the bounding mafic volcanic unit. Gold-in-soil anomalism is noted to extend for a further 3km to the north of the new, high-grade vein exposures, giving a total potential strike length of more than 6km for the system. The area will be the subject of mapping and drilling programmes in the near future in support of the advancement of the ThreeBee project. Feature image credit:Wikimedia