 NYSE-listed Newmont Mining has been recognized for top performance in the mining sector in The Sustainability Yearbook 2018. The Yearbook is published by RobecoSAM, a sustainability investment firm that manages one of the most comprehensive databases of financially material sustainability information in the world. RobecoSAM’s assessment is used to determine the composition of the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index (DJSI World), which ranked Newmont as the mining industry’s overall leader in 2015, 2016 and 2017. “We’re honored to be recognized as a mining industry leader in sustainability by RobecoSAM,” says Newmont Mining president and CEO Gary Goldberg. “Mining is a long-term business and our ability to create value – which we’ve done for nearly a century and plan to do far into the future – rests on our ability to operate responsibly. "That means protecting the health and safety of our people, minimizing our impact on the environment throughout the mine life cycle, and sharing the wealth our business generates fairly with investors, employees, host communities and governments.” The Sustainability Yearbook has been published annually since 2004 and is based on a Corporate Sustainability Assessment which ranked 2,479 companies worldwide – including 67 mining companies – on 600 sustainability performance metrics for each company assessed. Aris Prepoudis, RobecoSAM’s CEO, says, “I congratulate Newmont Mining wholeheartedly for being awarded a Gold Class medal in The Sustainability Yearbook 2018. "The companies included in the Yearbook are the world’s most sustainable companies in their industry and are moving the Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) needle in ways that will help us realize the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals by 2030.” In addition to being ranked last month as the world’s leading miner in FORTUNE magazine’s most admired companies list, Newmont Mining was once again confirmed as a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series, with an Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) rating of 95 out of 100. In December 2017, Newmont Mining was one of only two resource companies named in a ranking by the Drucker Institute of the top 250 best managed companies based on high scores in the areas of employee engagement and development, and social responsibility. Feature image credit: Wikimedia