 AIM-quoted Hummingbird Resources states the plant at its Yanfolila Gold Mine in Mali has been operating at an average of ~90% of design throughput capacity. Yanfolila production update Since first gold was poured on 19 December 2017, Yanfolila has steadily been ramping up towards full production in line with the company’s planned schedule. Over the past ten days the plant has been operating at an average of ~90% of design throughput capacity. The plant has been achieving ~96% gold recoveries, higher than design specification, consistently since the start of operations. Total gold recovered to date is 10,737 ounces of which 5,483 ounces has been shipped to refiners.  In this first period of operations the plant was processing ore from the lower-grade stockpiles, in order to ensure plant performance and gold recovery were satisfactory before increasing the head grade. Now that the plant is running close to name-plate capacity and recoveries remain consistently high; higher-grade ore is increasingly being introduced to the plant. Yanfolila exploration update The 2018 exploration programme at Yanfolila has commenced with the focus being on the conversion of indicated and inferred resources to mineable reserves. Hummingbird Resources has over 1 million ounces of resources outside the mine plan which the company is targeting for conversion into reserves. It is the company’s intention to spend in the region of US$8-10 million on exploration this year, but not more than 15% of Hummingbird’s operating cash-flows from Yanfolila. Hummingbird Resources aims to pursue an aggressive exploration strategy to extend the mine life, which will be controlled by strict financial discipline. His Excellency Ibrahim Boubacar Keita, the President of the Republic of Mali, has postponed his visit to Yanfolila due to other business, however, the official opening ceremony is expected to take place with the President in attendance at a later date in 2018. “I am pleased that activity on site is steadily progressing as per the ramp-up schedule and we are on track to achieve name plate capacity from the plant by the end of Q1 2018," comments Hummingbird Resources CEO, Dan Betts. “I am particularly happy to report on the technical performance of the plant, with recoveries over 95% already and a solid performance of the milling circuit. This stands us in good stead as we continue to ramp up the performance of the operation.” Feature image credit: Hummingbird Resources