 Anglo American Platinum has reported strong results for the twelve months ended 31 December 2017. Anglo American Platinum (Amplats) successfully delivered against its key objectives by substantially improving operational performance across the portfolio; repositioning the portfolio to own and operate the best, highest margin assets in the platinum group metals (PGM) mining industry; cutting loss-making production; and investing for the future to create a sustainable business. Amplats however, had an unacceptable safety performance, with six fatalities.   The company’s safety aspiration is to eliminate fatalities and it is committed to turning around the poor fatality performances of 2016 and 2017. In 2017, significant progress has been made in the repositioning of the portfolio, with the disposals of the sale of the Amplats’ 42.5% stake in the Pandora joint venture, as well as the completion of the sale of the long-dated resources at Amandelbult. In addition, Atlatsa Resources placed the Bokoni mine joint venture operation on care and maintenance, also removing loss-making production. This allows Amplats to focus on the most competitive assets, consisting of largely open-pit and more mechanized operations which will result in higher margin production, a smaller and more highly skilled workforce, safer operations and a less complex organisation. The core operations will benefit from dedicated management attention and technical expertise, as well as disciplined capital allocation. As a result of improved operational efficiencies across the portfolio, total PGM production was up 1% with record breaking production from both Mogalakwena and Unki. This was despite the removal of loss-making production from Bokoni and third-party purchase of concentrate from Maseve and the unplanned stoppage at Mototolo for remedial work on the tailings facility. Despite difficult market conditions, the company generated a strong financial performance in the period. Amplats is reporting a stronger EBITDA of R12 billion, up 32%, benefiting from improved operational performance. Amplats has also displayed strong cost control in the period, with lower operating costs, lower overheads, lower restructuring costs and the benefit of the exit of Rustenburg. Unit costs fell 2% - at R19,203 per produced platinum ounce (2016: R19,545). Amplats generated R2.4 billion of free cash flow from operations, combined with sale proceeds from asset sales and the last tranche of a customer prepayment, contributed to a significant reduction of net debt to R1.8 billion from R7.3 billion. “I am pleased to present a strong set of results for the 2017 financial year. We have delivered on our commitments of improving operational performance, repositioning the portfolio, ensuring industry-leading cost-control and through disciplined capital allocation," says Amplats CEO, Chris Griffith. "Our fatality performance was both disappointing and unacceptable, we lost six of our colleagues last year in work related incidents. We have already extended our deepest condolences to their families, friends and colleagues, and do so once again. We have a turn-around programme in place to address this poor performance and we continue to strive towards elimination of fatalities. "Our persistent focus on value, rather than volume has resulted in a 32% increase in EBITDA to R12 billion and improved headline earnings. We generated R2.4 billion of operating free cash flow and materially improved our net debt position to R1.8 billion, with a net debt to EBITDA ratio of 0.2 times. "The hard work of the past five years has enabled us to announce that we have reintroduced the dividend, establishing a pay-out ratio of 30% of headline earnings. This equates to a dividend payment of R3.49 per share for 2017. "Amplats is now a fundamentally different business, having restructured and repositioned the business. We have seen our productivity increase by 58% since 2012, and now have 70% of our production in the first half of the cost curve and generated an EBITDA margin and ROCE of 18% respectively. We are a more efficient and more competitive business, generating better returns. "Looking forward, our focus will continue to be on operational excellence, and strengthening the underlying cash generation of the business. We will maintain strict capital allocation discipline, while considering value-enhancing, quick payback projects, and continue to progress the project studies at our world-class assets,” adds Griffith.  Market development and outlook PGM market development continues across several demand segments including jewellery, investment and industrial as well as supporting the widespread commercial adoption of the hydrogen economy which will assist in the commercialisation of fuel cells in the transport and other sectors. Amplats is committed to advancing future technology to create a modernized business, whilst investing in employees and the communities in which it operates. Forecasts suggest that the three major PGMs, platinum, palladium and rhodium, should collectively be in deficit again in 2018. Rising vehicle production volumes and a healthy global economy should drive higher demand while primary mine production is likely to be relatively unchanged compared to the previous year. Guidance PGM production guidance is 4.75 - 5.0 million PGM ounces and platinum production guidance of 2.3 - 2.4 million ounces, refined production and sales volumes will be in line with production. Outlook Looking ahead, with the current and expected market conditions for PGMs, Amplats remains focused on its strategy to deliver change and build a resilient business, having restructured and repositioned the business to become more resilient despite an ongoing volatile PGM pricing environment. Dividend declaration Amplats has adopted a pay-out ratio driven dividend policy, which is in accordance with the company’s capital allocation framework and in line with its commitment to sustainably return cash to shareholders through the cycle, whilst retaining a high level of balance sheet strength. Directors approved the declaration of a final gross cash dividend of 349 cents per share on the ordinary shares from profits accrued during the six months ended 31 December 2017. The dividend has been declared from retained earnings. The dividend will be subject to a dividend withholding tax of 20% for all shareholders who are not exempt from or do not qualify for a reduced rate of withholding tax. The net dividend payable to shareholders subject to withholding tax at a rate of 20% amounts to 279.20 cents per share. Feature image credit: Amplats (Geoff Brown)