 TSXV-listed Algold Resources has announced assay results from a trenching and pitting program carried out in late Q4 2017 at the high-grade Salma zone located at its Tijirit project in Mauritania. The Salma Vein, discovered in mid-2017 is located only five kilometers northeast of the Eleonore zone. The Salma zone vein system has now been traced over a ten-kilometer-long mineralized gold structure situated at the prospective granite-greenstone contact zone. “These results highlight the extensive potential of the Salma zone to rapidly add substantial high-grade gold mineralization at the Tijirit project,” says Algold CEO, Francois Auclair. “We continue to focus on building and expanding existing resources at Tijirit, which now consists of three larger main mineralized zones (Eleonore, Lily and Salma), all in close proximity, thus enabling many future operating synergies.” Sampling was carried out predominantly in trenches and pits excavated by artisanal miners. Compliance with on-site safety protocol limited entry by Algold geologists to only certain trenches and pits for sampling purposes. The samples were generally taken at depths varying from 3 to 5 meters in trenches (or pits) that demonstrated higher grade or wider mineralization and that received limited work compared to other areas. The material sampled in pits often included un-mined narrow “pillars” with exposed veins, albeit presumably narrower than that what had been mined. The ends of pits, where the mineralization had seemingly pinched out, were also sampled to confirm the hypothesis as well as to provide better targeting for future drilling. Throughout the Salma zone the mineralization trends in a north to northeast direction and is associated with local shearing. Gold was found within quartz veins ranging in width from 0.2 to 3.25 meters, located close to the contact of an intrusive granite pluton and the mafic volcanics. Locally, veins pinch and swell along the structure. Individual veins have been mapped for over 500 meters, with parallel veins often recorded. In the southern Salma zone, in the area dubbed Pressure Shadow, various orientations were observed with flat-lying, shallow dipping, discordant and shear-associated veins recorded. Gold has been found in all of these structures. In total, 78 trenches were sampled with 276 channel samples taken from 180.5 meters. Feature image credit: Flagpedia