  Ashanti Gold Corp announced the results of its on-going exploration programme at Kossanto East project in Mali. Commencing in October last year, Ashanti Gold embarked on a comprehensive exploration programme designed to advance 1) the Gourbassi East and Gourbassi West mineralised areas and 2) evaluate the potential of other targets on the project. Mali – The improved understanding of the extent and controls on mineralisation at both of these important mineralised areas are an important step to increasing the resource potential to the fullest extent. The exploration programme is designed to guide drilling planned for next quarter and prioritise satellite targets for their potential to host mineralisation similar to that identified at Gourbassi East and West. Exploration activities include re-logging of reverse circulation (RC)  drilling chips and diamond drill core, regional and detailed mapping of target areas and unexplored portions of the concession, extensive soil sampling, rock chip sampling, and re-sampling of past trenches. In addition, a detailed differential GPS survey of all drill collars was completed. Creation of a geologic model using Vulcan 3D software is currently underway in preparation for the next drilling campaign. To date, over 500 soil samples, > 100 trench samples, and >100 rock chip samples have been collected. Results from the first 388 soil geochemical samples have identified broader zones of mineralisation and enhanced the strike continuity of known mineralisation at the extensive Gourbassi East and Gourbassi West targets. In addition, sample data has confirmed geological connections between isolated targets into new, larger, contiguous trends. Mapping has identified structural elements important to understanding mineralisation and has identified new targets with surface exposures similar to mineralised ones at Gourbassi West and Gourbassi East. Re-logging of diamond drill core and RC chips will assist in developing a 3D geologic model for both Gourbassi West and Gourbassi East from which planned drilling can be undertaken most effectively. “Our drill programme in the summer of 2017 was designed to confirm the attractiveness of the project and get data points on the board to know if we had potentially a major asset," comments Ashanti Gold's CEO Tim McCutcheon. "This recent step at Kossanto East is about complementing our past work, and that of our predecessors, so that our planned drill program later this year has full impact. "The whole team is very excited about having the full data set to piece together a clear picture on the known 2.3 km of strike length at Gourbassi East and West, as well as showing the potential beyond that 2.3 km," he continues. Feature image credit: Ashanti Gold