 Unearthed and Mining Indaba have joined forces to support five global mining technology startups to pitch their impactful industry solutions in a startup showcase session at the event. The five innovative businesses that have been selected to access the valuable opportunity to present to leaders from 220+ mining companies and 350+ qualified, buy-side investors are: Responsible mineral sourcing blockchain startup Minespider, critical communication central control point Cribber, tailored machine learning and artificial intelligence solution provider DataProphet, geoscientific imagery knowledge extraction platform Imago, and applied vehicle analysis startup AVA. Founding director of Unearthed Justin Strharsky will moderate Wednesday’s startup session showcasing these upcoming transformative mining technologies. “We are excited to be able to offer both local and international startups the chance to pitch to potential customers and investors at one of the world’s largest mining conferences,” says Strharsky. Minespider founder and CEO Nathan Williams says that he is thrilled about presenting what Minespider can do with block-chain to so many important figures in the mining industry. “Mining is the perfect application of this type of traceability, and we expect this will help take Minespider to the next level,” explains Williams. Imago founder Michael Evans said that he is excited to pitch Imago at Mining Indaba. “Africa is a big market for us. We really appreciate the chance to meet so many potential clients so quickly. The conference has a great reputation for investment and technology. It is the perfect way to show investors how Imago is changing mining,” highlights Evans. Applied Vehicle Analysis (AVA) founder Jason van der Watt said that the Mining Indaba is the premier mining event of the year and AVA is proud to share their innovation journey with all the great mining minds in one place. “At AVA, we bring a whole new angle to how we think about systems in mining, and the value of easy, inexpensive and applicable data. Our business model is different, and we have shown that it is working. Many mines and major market segments remain untapped and inefficient, so we are hoping to change that as we deliver our message,” comments van der Watt. Feature image credit: Unearthed