 Stratex, the AIM-quoted gold-focused exploration and development company in Turkey and Africa, is concluding negotiations with a partner for our Dalafin gold project. “Following last year’s requisition, it has been necessary to reassess Stratex from the bottom up in order to provide a stable platform on which to grow," comments interim CEO of Stratex, Dr Bob Foster. "Following meetings with our shareholders, we will be adopting a new and revised policy whereby the company will ensure that all new opportunities are measured to strict financial and strategic criteria including a focus on jurisdictions that are more aligned with Stratex’s current geographic focus. "Our first priority has been to evaluate projects within our existing portfolio where we recognizes inherent value. As part of this evaluation, we are concluding negotiations with a likely joint venture partner for our Dalafin gold project in Senegal that we hope will be finalized during Q1. "The team has also been busy identifying a number of opportunities that could provide a flagship project on which to grow Stratex, and discussions are underway with a select number of interested parties. "We are also delighted to announce the upcoming appointment of our new CEO, Tim Livesey, who will join Stratex on 1 March 2018. "I will continue to be available as a consultant to the company as required in order to provide continuity. Tim has extensive experience advancing projects across the entire development and value chain, specifically in delivering significant value to shareholders. "We believe Tim is the ideal person to continue re-establishing the value in Stratex and executing its growth objectives. We look forward to welcoming him on board next month,” concludes Foster. “I am pleased to be joining the team at Stratex International, having watched the company since its inception. I am confident Stratex provides a firm base for growth and I welcome the opportunity to play a role in its continued development,” comments Tim Livesey. Feature image credit: Wikimedia