 Stellar Diamonds, the London quoted diamond exploration and development company focused on West Africa, has announced that the front end engineering and design study for the underground mine development of the Tongo-Tonguma project in  Sierra Leone has commenced. A team of five consultants from contractors Paradigm Project Management (PPM) and SRK Consulting (SRK) have arrived on the Tongo-Tonguma site to begin the various work streams associated with the front end engineering and design programme. “We are pleased that the first key milestone in the mine development at Tongo-Tonguma has commenced," states Stellar Diamonds CE, Karl Smithson. "PPM are highly experienced in the delivery of diamond mine projects and together with SRK they will refine all elements of the Tongo-Tonguma mine plan as determined in the published PEA to higher levels of confidence in order to reduce the project delivery risk. "With over 66 000 meters of drilling completed at the Tongo-Tonguma project to date, we will drill of a further 9 000 meters of mine plan related drilling to a depth of 75 meters concurrent with the front end engineering and design study.” Front end engineering and design objectives The main objectives of the front end engineering and design study are to better define the technical requirements of the Tongo-Tonguma project in order to ensure that the correct underground mine design is implemented and that the treatment plant design and layout is properly designed and the unit processes are clearly identified. Although the combined Tongo-Tonguma projects have seen some 66 000 meters of drilling, approximately 9 000 meters of additional core drilling is intended to be undertaken at 50 meter intervals. The aim of this is to better define the near-surface geology of the kimberlites in resource with particular reference to siting of the decline portals, the declines and the development drives for the first two levels of mining to a depth of 75 meters below surface. Furthermore, the drilling will provide the necessary geo-technical and hydro-geological information for the initial years of mining. The front end engineering and design programme will also define the final capital expenditure estimate and the operating cost budgets. In addition, the project execution plan will also be developed. A refined financial model will also be developed for the mine. Feature image credit: Wikimedia