Africa Finance Corporation has announced the appointment of Samaila D. Zubairu as the corporation’s third president and CEO, succeeding Andrew Alli who has successfully served in the position since 2008. Zubairu is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN) and an accomplished Infrastructure development finance specialist with over 29 years of professional experience. He is the CEO of Africapital Management in which he established a joint venture with Old Mutual’s African Infrastructure Investment Managers (AIIM) to develop the Nigerian Infrastructure Investment Fund1 for infrastructure private equity across West Africa. He also recently coordinated the US$300 million acquisition of Eko Electricity Distribution. He has led finance transactions for over $3 billion covering: green-field project finance facilities, acquisitions, corporate transformation initiatives, privatisation and equity capital market transactions. The appointment of Zubairu follows a six-month search process that saw over 100 candidates apply for the role. He will formally take the post imminently. “On behalf of the Corporation, I am delighted to welcome Zubairu to Africa Finance Corporation," comments chairman, Dr. Okwu J. Nnanna. "In Samaila, we have identified an individual with the exceptional qualities across deal origination, execution and capital raising that will continue to facilitate comments Africa Finance Corporation's ability to deliver transformational change through infrastructure investment as it moves into a new era. “His track record of operational excellence will be of huge benefit to Africa Finance Corporation and all its stakeholders as we build on a decade that has seen the corporation become a market leader in the infrastructure space of Africa, positively impacting millions of lives every day. "I would like to thank Andrew Alli, who over the last decade has turned Africa Finance Corporation from a start-up into the world class institution that it is today. "His departure is truly our loss and I am confident in saying I speak for all stakeholders to Africa Finance Corporation in wishing Andrew the very best in his future endeavors.” “Africa Finance Corporation is one of the most dynamic organisations on the continent. In the last decade, we have seen the organisation grow its balance sheet by a remarkable 400%, produce competitive returns, whilst transforming African economies through innovative infrastructure development and financing," comments Zubairu. "I am therefore immensely humbled by the distinct honour of this appointment to lead such a distinguished organisation. “As the incoming president and CEO, I am confident of the corporations market position as being best placed to surmount Africa’s multi-sectoral infrastructure challenges and no doubt this success has been achieved in no small part, because of Africa Finance Corporation’s outgoing president and CEO, Andrew Alli and his team of exceptional professionals. I "I therefore look forward to joining the corporations highly reputable team and together, enhancing its position as an extremely capable project partner, able to deliver sustainable development projects across the continent," he adds.