AngloGold Ashanti has appointed Kelvin Dushnisky as CEO and executive director of the board of directors of AngloGold Ashanti, effective 1 September 2018. He joins from Barrick Gold, where he holds the role of president and executive director. “Following an extremely competitive global search, we’re pleased to name someone of Kelvin’s calibre and experience to lead this organisation,” says AngloGold Ashanti chairman Sipho Pityana. “Kelvin brings to us an impeccable set of values, a deep understanding of operating a large, complex global portfolio of mining assets and projects, and a keen familiarity of an evolving geopolitical landscape. "He will head a strong, cohesive team committed to executing AngloGold Ashanti’s strategy of sustainably improving returns, through disciplined capital allocation.” Dushnisky, will relocate to Johannesburg, where AngloGold Ashanti is based, replaces outgoing CEO Srinivasan Venkatakrishnan, who departs at the end of August 2018 for a role at London-based Vedanta Resources. Venkat will cease to be a member of the board with effect from 31 August 2018. “AngloGold Ashanti has a strong portfolio of assets and an exciting pipeline of organic growth opportunities,” says Dushnisky. “I’m honoured to be selected for this role, and look forward to working alongside a world-class team in building on the excellent work already done, as we unlock the enormous potential that exists in the company.” Since his appointment as president of Barrick in 2015, Dushnisky held direct responsibility for Barrick’s overall business and the execution of its operating plans and strategic priorities. This role included oversight of Barrick’s activities across Australia, Africa, the Middle East, North America and South America. He also held responsibility for Barrick’s relationships with host governments, local communities and other external stakeholders. Prior to this, Dushnisky held a range of progressively senior positions in Barrick since joining in 2002. He holds a B.Sc. (Hon.) degree from the University of Manitoba and M.Sc. and J.D. degrees from the University of British Columbia. He is a member of the Law Society of British Columbia, the Canadian Bar Association, the Business Council of Canada, the Institute of the Americas, the Canadian Council for the Americas (Vice-Chair) and the Canadian Chamber of Commerce. Whilst at Barrick, Dushnisky represented the company at the World Gold Council and the International Council on Mining and Metals. He is a member of the International Advisory Board of the Shanghai Gold Exchange and the Accenture Global Mining Executive Council. Dushnisky is also a trustee and a member of the board of directors of the University Health Network.