As mines work towards reducing their reliance on municipal water supplies, a key aspect of their water management strategy should be more effective monitoring of their process water ponds and dams. “South Africa is coming to terms with just how scarce our water resources are, and mines realise that they can no longer simply top up their water from municipal sources when they run short,” says Vine. This article first appeared in Mining Review Africa Issue 6 2018 “Rather, mines are becoming more self-sufficient, which in turn means managing all their water storage and process facilities more closely.” He says a common issue that is still encountered, however, is that process ponds are allowed to silt up to levels at which they no longer store and reticulate as much water as they are designed to. The result is not only a potential disruption to the smooth operation of the process plant but can extend to costly environmental accidents. Efficient operation of process ponds is also vital to the recycling and reuse of on-site mine water for the plant and other purposes. “Where the monitoring of the ponds is not done regularly – and where variability in the plant process itself might lead to higher levels of deposition than expected – then this can lead to serious challenges in the mine’s overall water balance,” he says. “As Integrated Pump Rental, we are often requested by mines to clear the silt from a dam, using our range of in-house equipment and solutions; but there also needs to be a more systematic approach to monitoring if mines want to avoid serious operational disruptions.” He notes that it is not difficult to see when ponds start silting up, but it is vital for this inspection to be carried out frequently enough for the pond’s condition to be reported on and for action to be taken. “From about 40% siltation, a bank under the water level can become visible, and needs to be addressed quickly,” he says. Mines are generally familiar with how quickly their ponds silt up, so one solution could be a three-monthly rotation during which one month is spent conducting cleaning duties. Allowing a dam to reach 100% or 110% levels of siltation really makes the whole process more disruptive and expensive; he warns as it carries the risk of affecting other vital aspects of the mine’s processing operation. Vine explains that desilting is not a labour-intensive activity, so only a couple of operators would be required to work the equipment. The economic value of the minerals in the silt should also not be forgotten, he emphasises, and many mines pump the material back to the mill where it can be reprocessed with considerable financial benefit. “The value reclaimed from retreating the silt from process water ponds at platinum and gold mines, for instance, will actually pay for the job of cleaning the pond,” he says. “So, mines should really be looking at the overall value to be gained by cleaning their ponds, rather than just at the cost of the cleaning process.” He also makes the point that the longer the slurry gathers and compacts in the ponds, the more difficult it is to dislodge the material and to clean the dam, thereby incurring higher cleaning costs. “This brings us back to the importance of regular monitoring and maintenance, which really requires a proper dredging programme to be planned in advance, and budgeted for adequately,” he says. Integrated Pump Rental can conduct an assessment of mines’ process water ponds and dams and can provide not only the once-off desilting work but can also arrange to visit the mine once or twice a year to inspect the facilities and advise on scheduled cleaning activities. “We take a flexible approach when working with mines, helping them to plan ahead and budget for a cost-effective solution to their process water pond management,” he says. “This might comprise a rental or project agreement where we come in and conduct the work on a pre-arranged basis, or it might be more cost effective for the mine to purchase a SlurrySucker unit.” Should a mine acquire the necessary equipment from Integrated Pump Rental to conduct their own cleaning, it will receive on-site training for the operators and ongoing support in terms of operation, maintenance and parts. Vine emphasises that the customer’s specific requirements are carefully assessed before a solution is proposed. “Our SlurrySucker, for instance, is essentially a ‘creepy crawly’ for process water ponds, so to have one of these units permanently installed on a mine would be a simple way of cutting the risk of dams over-filling and the resultant environmental issues,” he says. “The unit can be operated for two or three days a month, and the mine can rest assured that the pond will operate to specification.” Integrated Pump Rental’s services also include hydro-mining, conducted with its SlurryBlaster units. In these applications, clean water is secured from an external source and put through a high-pressure gun which creates a slurry from the silted material; the slurry can then be directed to a strategically placed slurry pump and moved away from the dam. “Our technical expertise and fit-for-purpose equipment allows us to mobilise rapidly to fix a specific problem for a customer,” says Vine, “but we can also help them find and implement more long-term and sustainable solutions.” You can read the full digital magazine here or subscribe here to receive a print copy