In order to ensure smooth operations in Lesotho and Moçambique, Minopex established companies in these countries to overcome cross-border challenges. WHY MINOPEX GOES LOCAL This gives clients the full Minopex quality service offering, while being localised and therefore adapted to specific regulations in terms of labour and mining and other governing laws. CONTINUED PRODUCTION GUARANTEED By handing over the processing function to Minopex in operating and maintaining your facility, Minopex is able to guarantee continuous production throughout the process, resulting in the reduction of operational downtime, and in turn, an increase in revenue. The Minopex teams have the flexibility to manage exceptional conditions and are able to remain focused on the specifics of the operation under their control, to ensure that all financial and quality goals of the contract are achieved. ACHIEVING SERVICE EXCELLENCE Because safety, quality and service excellence are paramount elements within the Minopex Group business models, comprehensive controls and integrated computerised systems have been developed and set up to ensure effective and highly efficient techniques for the management and control of the minerals processing operations. SERVICE OFFERING + Process and Engineering activities + Metallurgical Quality Management, Control and Analysis + Scheduled and Preventative Maintenance + Condition Monitoring and Analysis + Purchasing, Stores Control and Asset Management + Cost Control + Contract Management and Administration + Health and Safety Skills Development + Environmental Management in conformity with the Employer’s overall EMPR + Specialist Sub-contractor Management + Laboratory Operations and Maintenance + Waste / Discard and Tailings Dump Management + Commissioning Services + Engineering Services SMALL PROJECTS This specialised team was established to assist the Minopex Lesotho & Moçambique clients and EPCM contractors with the commissioning phase of a mineral processing facility, worldwide. They are experienced in the commissioning phase, the type of equipment found throughout the plant and with the specific process involved. They include shift superintendents, senior process operators and control room operators who will bring a recently constructed plant to order as the client may still be training his personnel. The dedicated Specialised Work and Training (SWAT) Team will assist with the efficient ramp up to nameplate capacity of any mineral processing plant. Whether your processing facility is a greenfield or brownfield operation, the Minopex SWAT teams are unrivalled in turning things around in the quickest, most efficient and most cost effective way possible. With experience covering various commodities including coal, platinum, diamonds, iron ore and gold, the SWAT teams have every aspect of of minerals processing covered, from designing the process, to building and then operating the plant. Thanks to the expertise of or engineers, specialist maintenance and asset management teams, as well as our training and safety management teams, the SWAT team is geared to be operationally ready to fast track the implementation of any project. They’re also ready to cost your costs, to reduce your business risk, and to improve your productivity. To find out more about our Localised Service Offering, visit www.minopex.com or contact +27 11 785 7000. 