Namibia Critical Metals has announced that flight operations have begun for the combined airborne electromagnetic and magnetic survey being carried out by SkyTEM Surveys ApS over the Kunene cobalt-copper project in Namibia. The survey area has been increased from 670 km2 to 720 km2 and now comprises 4 000 line kilometers at a flight line spacing of 200 meters. The objectives of the survey are to detect conductive horizons and sulphide accumulations associated with cobalt-copper mineralisation to depths of 300-400 meters, and to assist with geological mapping and structural interpretations. Field teams have been mapping priority target areas in advance to assist in interpretation of geophysical anomalies. The SkyTEM survey is now scheduled to be completed in early August, to be followed by an initial 7 500 m drilling programme. “The investment we are making in this high powered airborne EM survey, coupled with our continuing geological mapping programme on the ground will provide our exploration team with the best possible tools to prioritise drill targets and increase the opportunity for an early discovery at Kunene," comments president of Namibia Critical Metals, Don Burton. "SkyTEM will deliver data updates from the field on a bi-weekly basis which will allow the team to immediately deploy to areas of interest as we see geophysical anomalies developing," he adds. The Kunene project area is contiguous with ground held by ASX-listed Celsius Resources who announced a maiden JORC compliant mineral resource at Opuwo on 16 April 2018. The Opuwo discovery hosts 79 300 tons contained cobalt in the Indicated Mineral Resources category and 46 900 tons contained cobalt in the Inferred Mineral Resources category. It is noted that the mineralisation on the Celsius property may not be indicative of mineralisation that may be found on the Kunene project area held by Namibia Critical Metals. Celsius has also announced that it will fly SkyTEM over its project area following completion of the Namibia Critical Metals survey and continue drilling at Opuwo and now anticipates the Scoping Study to be delivered in early Q4, 2018. Given the frequent association of Co-Cu and Pb-Zn mineralisation with sulphides, the prolific number of cobalt anomalies, and the kilometric scale trends throughout the project area, it was recommended that a detailed helicopter time domain electromagnetic survey be flown to delineate specific targets for drilling. The objectives of the airborne EM survey will be to refine the geological and structural setting of the area, to allow mapping of the covered ground which comprises about 50% of the area, to delineate conductive sedimentary horizons, to isolate conductive bodies that may be indicative of near surface mineral deposits, and to detect sulphide deposits and stock-works at depth.