MOD Resources has announced the second hole to test the target sequence within the A4 Dome has intersected potentially significant visible copper mineralisation in veins. South Africa - A4 Dome lies within the ~700 km2 T3 Dome Complex and forms part of a joint venture (JV) with AIM-listed Metal Tiger. The JV holds extensive licences operated by in-country subsidiary, Tshukudu Metals Botswana extending 200 km along the centre of the Kalahari Copper Belt. MO-A4-003D is currently at 334 m depth and is being deepened to >600 m to test other conductive features defined from airborne electromagnetic (EM) data within the core of the A4 Dome. The hole will also test the prospective Ngwako Pan Formation (NPF) contact inferred below the target sequence. Intersecting visible copper sulphides at A4 Dome is particularly significant as it reinforces the use of airborne EM that has identified many ‘buried domes’, several with similar geometry to the MOD Resources' flagship development project at T3. Drilling at the A4 Dome is the start of a major drilling campaign testing for vein hosted deposits at seven of these newly discovered domes as announced on 15 May 2018. “Our geologists are excited that MO-A4-003D has intersected a mineralised stockwork vein system, within what appears to be a large, intact dome," comments MOD Resources MD, Julian Hanna. "This opens up the possibility that any copper that was deposited in the A4 Dome is still there. “The wider significance is that this hole has also confirmed the benefits of using state-ofthe-art EM to successfully target copper within these previously unrecognised domes," he adds. MO-A4-003D is located 1.8 km west of the first hole at the A4 Dome, MO-A4-001D, which also intersected vein hosted mineralisation at the eastern end of the dome. Another drill hole, MO-A4-002D, located 1.0 km west of MO-A4-001D is currently at 328 m depth and nearing the interpreted target sequence, and MO-A4-004D located 150 m north of MO-A4-003D has just commenced. Drill core is now being processed through Tshukudu’s sample preparation facility in Ghanzi and the site team is making arrangements to have this assayed as soon as possible.