Assay results from West African focused gold explorer Cora Gold indicate shallow, broad zones of high grade gold mineralisation at its Sanankoro gold discovery in southern Mali. West Africa - Furthermore, with the onset of the wet season, the successful 2017/2018 drilling campaign has now been completed and Cora Gold awaits approximately 900 assays, primarily relating to the Tekeledougou project in southern Mali, which will be released once available. “We are continuing to identify new zones of gold mineralisation, enhancing the large-scale potential of the Sanankoro gold discovery," says Cora Gold CEO Dr Jonathan Forster. "We have now delineated approximately 8 km of drill defined gold mineralized structures, forming the basis of future drill programmes focusing on mineral resource definition. "This further increases our confidence in the potential for Sanankoro to be a standalone mine. "We have been highly encouraged by this set of drilling results from Sanankoro, which shows broad zones of mineralisation with good grades in the reconnaissance step out holes at the northern end of “Target 1” which was discovered in the initial drill programme. "These results potentially increase the length of this new mineralised structure (Target 1) to over 2 km,. “We have made fantastic progress on the ground since our IPO in October 2017 and with the wet season rains commencing, drilling has now been concluded at both Sanankoro and Tekeledougou for this exploration season. "This has been a very successful exploration campaign with more than 18 000 m of combined aircore (AC), reverse circulation (RC) and diamond drilling completed across both projects," says Forster. During the 2018 drilling season, Cora Gold completed 135 drill holes for a total of over 13 000 m including approximately 12 500 m of AC and RC, and 507 m of core. The programme primarily comprised shallow, first pass, reconnaissance drilling, with a fence spacing of mainly 160 m over a combined strike length of about 8 km. Drill results have previously been reported for all of the core holes and 104 AC/RC holes. The results of a further 21 holes are reported in this announcement. Of the 21 holes reported here, eight holes are interpreted to have missed the structure with no significant intersections. Cora Gold completed infill drill fences at Target 1 on approximately 160 m spacing using a NW azimuth rather than the earlier EW direction. Cora Gold also completed further step out reconnaissance drilling, with the objective of extending Target 1 a further 900 m to the north. Results from this work continues to indicate continuity of the gold mineralised structure between the wide spaced fences of the first round of drilling at Target 1, however, Cora Gold believes that due to incorrect collar locations for some holes, some areas of the structure may not have been properly tested. Impressive results were obtained from the two northerly step out drill fences, set about 360 m apart, both of which returned evidence for significant gold mineralisation from surface. Depth of weathering is estimated to be approximately 50 m, as the alluvial plains of the Niger River are approached. Consistent with previous drilling, visible gold is readily observed from panning of the weathered drill samples with correlation emerging between intercepts with high levels of visible gold and high assay grades. True width of the structure in the step-out holes is, as yet, unknown. Cora Gold completed two scissor holes to test an isolated artisanal excavation of 360 m length located at the northern part of the Bokoro structure. This artisanal zone extends at least a further 400 m to the north as observed by abandoned pits. These holes are the first to be drilled in the northern section of the Bokoro structure and open up a multi-kilometre long zone for follow up exploration. Cora Gold has recently completed an 18-hole combined AC/RC drill programme for 2 097 m at its Tekeledougou project which includes two new gold discoveries with large footprints, “Woyoni” and “Kouroudian”. Both of these prospects are located within trucking distance ( about 8 km) of the operating Yanfolila gold mine. The drill programme included six holes at the Woyoni prospect and 12 holes at the Kouroudian prospect. Both prospects have now been drilled on approximately 80 m spaced fences with the most recent campaign testing to depths of approximately 100 vertical metres. The objective of this drilling campaign was to increase the strike length of both prospects, with Woyoni now tested to 440 m and Kouroudian to 1 km of strike length. The company believes there is significant potential to extend these wide structures well beyond the already identified footprint which, if consistently mineralised, could lead to a large gold deposit. In order to maximise the reproducibility of assays in the presence of visible gold, 4 kg sample sizes from both AC/RC and core were collected and transported to the SGS laboratory in Ougadougou, Burkina Faso. The entire sample was then dried and pulverised, prior to splitting to 2 kg samples for cyanide bottle roll analysis. It should be noted that cyanide leach provides a “recovered” gold grade rather than a total gold grade.  In oxide samples, such as at Sanankoro, the total gold assay might be expected to be about 5-10% higher than the recovered grade. Bottle roll assays in excess of 0.5 g/t Au will include a component of 50 g fire assay testing of the residue material from the bottle roll to enable a total gold content to be established as well as an indication of gold recovery through cyanide leach.