Dual-listed exploration project generator Altus Strategies may have found its next potential discovery at its Zolowo gold project in western Liberia. Having recently completed its TSXV listing and associated capital raise, Altus Strategies’ exploration team has been exceptionally busy with simultaneous programmes in Cameroon, Liberia, Morocco, Ethiopia, Côte D’Ivoire and Mali. As a result of its exploration programmes, Altus Strategies Chief Executive Steven Poulton says “it looks as if we are on the tail of a potential discovery at our Zolowo gold project in western Liberia, where the scale of active and historic artisanal alluvial gold mining is substantial.” Exploration at Zolowo, which is located in the Lofa County of north western Liberia and 190 km northeast of the capital city of Monrovia, entailed a detailed follow-up programme over the 466 km2 Zolowo gold exploration licence. This programme has identified the presence of many tens of artisanal gold workings within a 14 km zone, both parallel to and within a 33 km long mapped greenstone belt. Individual artisanal workings have been mapped as being up to 150 m long. Assays are pending and will be reported in due course. Altus Strategies initially considered the Zolowo exploration licence based on a comprehensive in-house analysis of available datasets including geological maps, historic mineral occurrences, remote sensing data and satellite imagery. The licence is situated on the south-western portion of the West African Craton and contains an approximately 22 km stretch of a significant 33 km long northeast-southwest trending Archaean-aged greenstone belt, which forms a prominent ridge that traverses the licence. Zolowo hosts numerous and extensive artisanal alluvial gold workings, which are mapped as being up to 500 m wide and 100 m long in places. Many of the artisanal workings coincide with areas where gold was historically documented in mapping undertaken by the United States Geological Survey. In addition to the potential discovery at Zolowo, Altus Strategies is encouraged with the progress that has been made across its other prospects – on which the company will provide project specific updates in due course, Poulton says.