The Protection of Investment Act, 2015 (South Africa) came into effect on 13 July 2018. The stated purpose of the Act is to protect foreign investors in South Africa, overall, the protections offered in the Act are substantially diminished. By way of background, the South African government first began a review its investment laws and regulations following the case of Piero Foresti, Laura de Carli & Others v The Republic of South Africa launched under the auspices of the Washington DC-based ICSID in 2007. Following the review, South Africa terminated several Bilateral Investment Treaties (BITs) to which South Africa was a party. It then sought to "substitute" the treaty protections with domestic legislation, which ultimately led to the Act being passed. Although the stated purpose of the Act is to protect foreign investors in South Africa, overall, the protections offered in the Act are substantially diminished when compared to the substantive standards contained in international treaties. Notably, the Act will have no direct effect on any protections which foreign investors enjoy under international treaties; those protections are still governed by the international instruments from which they arise. Webber Wentzel sets out some key features of the Act which any investor should be aware of. This seeks to ensure that the rights of foreign investors cannot be interpreted in a way that would infringe on the government's right to implement regulatory measures that it sees as being in the public interest. While the Act sets forth various protections, there is a concern that these do not provide any greater comfort than those already included in the Constitution. Investors with grievances under the Act will only be able to request the South African Department of Trade and Industry to appoint a mediator and/or to approach a South African court or a tribunal or statutory body provided in any other South African legislation. Unlike investment treaties, which prescribe compulsory investor-state international arbitration outside of South Africa before an international tribunal, the Act contains no compulsory referral to international arbitration at all. To the extent that international arbitration is mentioned in the Act, it may only be conducted as between two States (i.e., not involving the investor directly) and only with the consent of both States. The impact of this on dispute resolution clauses in contracts concluded with the government after the date of the commencement of the Act is unclear. Section 13(5) of the Act states that "[t]he government may consent to international arbitration in respect of investments covered by this Act, subject to the exhaustion of domestic remedies. The consideration of a request for international arbitration will be subject to the administrative processes set out in section 6. Such arbitration will be conducted between the Republic and the home state of the applicable investor." It is arguable that the Act seeks to limit the government's ability to agree to any international arbitration in respect of any investment covered by the Act, by contract or otherwise, except as provided in section 13(5). An investment is very broadly defined in the Act. By way of example, section 8 of the Act provides that foreign investors and their investments must not be treated less favourably than South African investors "in like circumstances". The Act, however, does not define "like circumstances" and the factors which should be taken into account in determining whether there are like circumstances are so vague and broad that they have the potential to be used to discriminate against foreign investors.
1Case no ARB(AF)/07/01. This case was an investor-state arbitration in which foreign investors challenged (in terms of international investment treaties), among other things, the effect of the new mining legislation (the Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act, 2002) and certain aspects of the policy on black economic empowerment pertaining to mining interests.