Barloworld Equipment, the southern African dealer for Cat earthmoving equipment, officially launched three New Range, New Rules Cat excavator models into the southern Africa market. Barloworld launched the new excavator models at an event held on 26 July 2018 at the Nasrec Exhibition Centre, south of Johannesburg. With increased operating efficiency, lower fuel and maintenance costs as well as improved operator comfort compared to previous models, the new excavators offer unique combinations of purpose-built features designed to match customer productivity and cost targets. The new Cat 320 raises the bar for efficiency with integrated Cat Connect Technology that advances productivity gains. Standard technology combined with lower fuel and maintenance costs delivers low-cost production in medium- to heavy-duty applications. Designed for low- to medium-duty applications, the new Cat 320 GC combines the right balance of productivity features with reduced fuel consumption and maintenance costs. The result is great reliability and low cost-per-hour performance. Delivering high production performance, the new Cat 323 boasts standard integrated Cat Connect Technology and the most power and lift capacity in the line. These features combine with lower fuel consumption and reduced maintenance costs to deliver maximum productivity at lowest cost. Barloworld notes that the new Cat 320 and 323 boast the industry’s highest level of standard factory-equipped technology to boost productivity. Both models are equipped with integrated Cat Connect Technology, which increases operating efficiency by up to 45 percent over traditional grading operations. Offering guidance for depth, slope and horizontal distance to grade, the Cat Grade with 2D system helps operators reach desired grade quickly and accurately. Using the system’s E-fence feature enables the machine to work safely under structures or near traffic by preventing any part of the excavator from moving outside operator-defined set points. The standard 2D system can be upgraded to Cat Grade with Advanced 2D or Cat Grade with 3D. Durable Cat engines provide duty-matched power ratings from 107 to 117 kW for the three new excavators. The efficient Next Generation machines consume up to 25% less fuel than the previous, corresponding models. New Smart mode operation automatically matches engine and hydraulic power to digging conditions, optimising both fuel consumption and performance. Engine speed is automatically lowered when there is no hydraulic demand to further reduce fuel usage. Offering extended and more synchronized maintenance intervals, the new Cat excavators do more work at a lower cost and reduce maintenance costs by up to 15 percent over the previous series. Featuring higher dirt capacity, the new Cat hydraulic return filter boasts a 3 000-hour service life, a 50% increase over previous filters. A new Cat air filter with integrated pre-cleaner and primary and secondary filters extends service life to 1 000 hours, a 100 percent increase over previous designs, while a new fuel tank cap filter extends service life to 2 000 hours. The three fuel system filters each offer a 500-hour service interval. All Next Generation Cat Excavator cabs come equipped with standard features like keyless push-button start, large standard 203-mm touchscreen monitor with jog dial keys for control and sound-suppressed rollover protective structures to offer the next level of operator comfort, safety and quiet operation. Programmable joystick buttons for response and pattern allow the operator to dial in productivity settings. New advanced viscous mounts reduce cab vibration by up to 50% over previous models to reduce operator fatigue.