SBS Water Systems is looking to gain momentum and grow its track record in the mining sector. It has already secured several milestone contracts over the last 24 months, says SBS’s technical sales consultant for mining, Andre Lotriet. SBS’s Standard Tanks range offers a list of benefits that make them an obvious choice for the mining sector’s large-scale and heavy-duty industrial requirements Lotriet states. “Our tanks are manufactured using high quality Zincalume steel which offers our clients a +60-year tank lifespan and peace of mind knowing this product can truly stand the test of time.” Further to this, every SBS Tank has an internal lining with 10-year non-leak warranty, significantly reducing the possibility of corrosion which often presents challenges in the mining sector. “The modular design of our tanks is also particularly well-suited to this industry which often needs to relocate equipment when short-life pits are mined across widespread areas. Our tanks can simply be dismantled and quickly reinstalled in less than 26 days.” By comparison, a concrete tank could take months, or even years to install depending on its size. Towards the middle of 2017 the company was awarded a contract to supply seven SBS Tanks to a major gold operator in Ghana – some two and a half years after SBS first became involved with the client at feasibility stage. “This is the largest order, by volume, we have ever received for a mining client after working for them over such a long period,” Lotriet enthuses. Manufacture of the tanks commenced shortly after the order was received – each completed within the standard six to eight-week manufacturing cycle. The tanks recently arrived on site where a team – comprising two SBS supervisors and a team of local employees which SBS will recruit - will complete the installation and commissioning during June and July this year. Lotriet explains that the tanks, ranging in capacity from just over 100 000 litres to 1.1 million litres, will be used within the process plant for potable, process and raw water storage. (The company’s largest tank can hold 3 million litres). “It is encouraging that several of our tanks are being used for the process water storage on a mining application, these tanks are well equipped for the job.” Another first for SBS was the installation of a 120 000 litre tank that incorporated a fixed-bed biology system for nitrate removal for a ferrochrome operation in the Burgersfort region. “Delivering a tank capable of housing such a technically advanced system showcases the extent of SBS’s capabilities within our field of expertise. Both tank and interior biology system have been working well since commissioning.” At present, the company is also installing three 2-million litre tanks for a coal project in the Delmas region, again proving that the SBS Tank is durable within even the most arduous environments. 2016 too brought SBS significant mining contracts – including the supply of a tank with unusually large 600 mm outlets to a Sierra Leone-based client. Standard outlet is generally around 450 mm, Lotriet notes. That year also saw the company install two 3 million litre tanks for a new PGM project situated close to Sun City. “No matter what the application, or the location, SBS Tanks are equipped to accommodate and deliver the mining industry’s water storage requirements,” Lotriet concludes.