Sibanye-Stillwater has together with the Department of Mineral Resources and organised labour reached a significant milestone at the second Safety and Health Summit convened by the Group, by committing themselves to a joint pledge on safety and a plan of action to address health and safety at the company. Organised labour present at the Summit included the Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union (AMCU), National Union of Mineworkers (NUM), Solidarity and United Association of South African (UASA). This Safety and Health Summit follows engagements on the health and safety of workers between the stakeholders, following a deterioration in the safety performance at Sibanye-Stillwater’s SA gold operations in 2018. The parties have committed to working together to make the workplaces safer; protect jobs and collaborate on all matters pertaining to the health, safety and wellbeing of workers. The Safety Pledge establishes the scope and spirit in which stakeholders agree to work further towards achieving Zero Harm. 'As Organised Labour, the DMR and the Management of Sibanye-Stillwater, we acknowledge the parties’ statutory obligation and workers right that our destiny is shared and commit ourselves, through constructive, transparent collaboration and compliance, to achieving Zero Harm’. Health and safety plan of action: Further engagements to involve all the relevant role players are planned with operational leadership teams across all Sibanye-Stillwater Operations and cross sector working groups will be put in place to monitor the implementation of the Plan of Action. The parties also agreed to partner with Sibanye-Stillwater and its workers to return those operations to acceptable levels of safety. CEO, Neal Froneman said: “We are encouraged by the commitment by all the stakeholders to addressing the safety challenges at our operations. This process is continuation of activities that are on-going at the operations, to ensure a step change in safety. The recognition of the shared responsibility on Health and Safety, and the collaboration of all stakeholders towards a common goal, is a significant step towards building an industry that is sustainable, and can deliver value safely.”