Avenira continues to progress the feasibility study for the expansion of its 80% owned Baobab phosphate project located in Senegal. West Africa - The feasibility study builds on earlier concept studies and is considering a major expansion of the existing Gadde Bissik mine. Lead engineering consultant Wood, is advancing key areas in process design, TSF design and mine scheduling and is starting the process to develop capital and operating cost estimates. While testwork completed to date supports the selected flowsheet, Wood and Avenira have instigated further flotation and magnetic separation testwork to confirm the process robustness and its ability to accommodate potential run-of-mine variability across the life of mine, particularly regarding silica particle size distribution and iron content. this additional work will enable Wood to finalise the basis of engineering and freeze the process plant design ahead of finalising the Feasibility Study. Avenira understands that its application for an Exploitation Permit covering an expanded area of 75  km2 surrounding the existing Small Mine Permit is progressing through the Senegalese Government and will provide further updates as information becomes available. Due to additional work, the feasibility study is now likely to be completed in the fourth quarter of 2018. Avenira is planning to initiate the Bankable Feasibility Study phase once a final project configuration has been selected with a targeted second quarter of 2019 completion. Since pausing mining activities during the 2017 wet season, operations at Baobab's Gadde Bissik mine have been focused on processing run-of-mine material from existing stockpiles. Since June 2018 Avenira has been shipping phosphate rock product to a local senegalese major fertiliser producer. Whilst small in scale given the current activity level at Gadde Bassik, this achievement means that Avenira has now successfully sold phosphate rock to both the domestic and international markets and continues to grow valuable relationships that will support the expansion project.