Date: 15/10/2018 - 17/10/2018 Location: Abuja, Nigeria Website NIGERIA MINING WEEK WELCOMES YOU! We would like to welcome all of you to another week dedicated to a mining discourse, interaction and networking for the development of the mining industry in Nigeria. Welcome to the 3rd edition of Nigeria Mining Week in which every mining stakeholder in Nigeria and globally abroad is seen as the vehicle for driving the industry forward and ensuring that the transformation of the industry continues. The Nigerian mining industry has witnessed great development within the last two year; with the improved funding of the sector to implement the Roadmap for Mining Development, the Ministry continues to tackle critical challenges such as exploration, policing of the Nigerian’s mine fields to checkmate illegal mining and support the artisanal and small scale mining to encourage legal mining practice. The above has translated into increased government revenue and massive employment. It has also generated interest from foreign and indigenous investors in Nigeria. We need to support the Government to create an enabling environment for the growth of this promising industry. The 3rd edition of Nigeria Mining Week is structured to be rewarding to all participants; Whether you are new to the Nigerian mining sector,a season professional or even a wouldbe- miner/investor in the Nigerian mining sector, this week of activities will encompass all the ‘need to know’ aspect to make sure your valuable time spent is a step to discover the potential of the mining industry in Nigeria: Finance masterclass, international exhibition, Dragon’s den, mentorship facilitation, technical workshops, networking sessions ,and unlimited connections are some of the key features awaiting for you during the week. We hope to see you and join us in talking Nigeria into the global mining arena so as to support the country’s strong movement towards economic diversification. OUR AGENDA FOR 2018: The event is open to Mining companies, Small scale mining operators, Government & academics, Banking/financial, Consultants, legal, advisory, Cement providers, Logistics & transport etc The 2018 brochure and all other details are available here. Click here to register For more information please contact: Kudakwashe Tsingano
Spintelligent
kudakwashe.tsingano@spintelligent.com 
(+27) 21 700 3588