Endeavour Mining has announced that the on-going exploration programme at its Houndé mine in Burkina Faso has successfully extended the Kari Pump high grade mineralisation and has discovered two new large mineralised zones named Kari Centre and Kari West. West Africa - Following the Kari Pump discovery, announced on 13 November 2017, exploration efforts were prioritised on the wider Kari area which hosts a large gold-in-soil geochemical anomaly covering a 6 km-long by 2.5 km-wide area. Kari is located only 7 km west of the processing plant and in proximity to an existing haul road that will be used to transport ore from Bouéré. More than 1 000 holes comprising 76 000 m have already been drilled in the Kari area since late December, extending the mineralised zone to a very large area now measuring 4 km long and 3 km wide, with approximately 25% of the gold-in-soil anomaly remaining to be drilled. “Following the initial discovery made last year, we have undertaken an extensive drilling campaign on the wider Kari target due to its potential size and higher-grade nature," comments Endeavour Mining executive president exploration and growth, Patrick Bouisset. "With more than half of the planned 141 000-meter drilling programme complete, we are extremely pleased with the results as they validate its potential and we are eager to delineate a first maiden resource on the Kari Pump area by year-end," he continues. “With Houndé ramped-up and the plant performing above nameplate capacity, we are now eager to pursue additional upside from exploration," notes Endeavour Mining president and CEO Sebastien de Montessus. "These new discoveries provide confidence in achieving our strategic objective of maintaining a steady production profile at an attractive All-in Sustaining Cost over at least 10-years," adds de Montessus. Following the construction decision to develop Endeavour Mining's Houndé mine, exploration resumed in early 2017 with an initial reconnaissance drilling campaign prioritising various targets identified during the 2016 exploration strategic review. In 2017, the campaign validated Hounde’s significant exploration potential as high-grade mineralisation was intercepted at the Kari, Sia/Sianikoui and Bouéré extension targets. Given its potential size, the Kari target was identified as a top priority and a circa $9 million exploration programme totaling over 141 000 m was launched in 2018 to follow-up on the Kari pump discovery and to explore the undrilled portion of the large Kari gold-in-soil geochemical anomaly which covers a 6 km-long by 2.5 km-wide area. The exploration campaign began in late December 2017 and more than 1 000 holes totaling 76 000 meters have been drilled to date on the various Kari targets, comprised of approximately 900 Air Core (AC) reconnaissance holes totaling 63 500 m and 120 Reverse Circulation (RC) holes totaling more than 14 900 m. The campaign has been very successful with more than 65% of the 120 RC holes encountering at least one interval of mineralisation of 0.5 g/t Au with a minimum width of more than 2 meters. Drilling successfully extended the Kari pump high grade mineralisation and discovered two new large mineralised zones named Kari Centre and Kari West. To date, these targets were investigated by mainly shallow AC drilling with the majority of the reported mineralisation located within the saprolite zone, at a vertical depth not exceeding 60 to 80 m. The previous 2017 exploration campaign on the Kari Pump target comprised of 337 AC/RC holes totaling 30,460 m, 23 RC holes totaling of 3 400 m and few Diamond Drilling (DD) holes. To date the mineraliSed Kari zone now covers a very large area extending over more than 4 km in length and 3 km in width. The two new discoveries (Kari Center and Kari West) are located in close proximity to Kari pump and more drilling is still required to determine a possible geological link between the
discoveries.