I returned to the Johannesburg after a whirlwind week in Perth, Australia for the annual Africa Down Under conference – and what a week it was! I’ll get to the conference in just a moment because what blew me away, quite literally, was the weather. It was freezing cold and rained for most of the week but the wind…. cyclone conditions on the Tuesday kept us from walking outside for fear of being blown over. Apparently Western Australia has experienced more rain in recent weeks than it has in the last 50 years. If I’m not mistaken and my memory serves me correctly, this was my fourth year attending Africa Down Under and I’ve certainly never experienced weather like I did. Fortunately, it had no impact on the conference – at all. Stand numbers were up, delegate numbers were up and presenters from across Africa were on form delivering positive sentiment about the promising future prospects for their projects and the continent. Although I must point out that Australia’s mining sector is by far the most optimistic when comparing them to their Canadian or European peers. Ironically, Africa Down Under is a fantastic opportunity to connect with the South African industry as well. I was able to network and catch up with so many friends that I rarely have the chance to connect with at home. This article first appeared in Mining Review Africa Issue 9 2018 This includes the South African Department of Mineral Resources (including Gwede Mantashe), along with Roger Baxter from the Minerals Council South Africa, Mintek and the Council for Geosciences. In fact, representation from the South African government was quite high – presumably on the back of their focus to drive foreign investment into the country. Baxter did a 180 degree turn on his presentation from last year – moving from a stance of ‘stay away from South Africa’s mining industry’ last year after ex-DMR minister Mosebenzi Zwane embarrassed us all to this year noting ‘South Africa is open for business again’ in reiteration to Mantashe’s encouraging address to delegates. The last day of Africa Down Under coincided with the last day South Africans had to submit comment to the ministry on the Mining Charter – a topical point left lingering in our minds as we all headed home. So, as always, I’m so glad to have been a part of Africa Down Under this year. The networking, the interviews, the face-to-face meets I generally miss from my home good ‘ol SA are for the memory book. I’m already looking forward to going again next year. You can read the full digital magazine here or subscribe here to receive a print copy