Anglo American Platinum brings two Kom-Vision equipped vehicles into production at Mogalakwena Complex in South Africa to enhance safety and boost operations. Anglo American Platinum recently bought two Kom-Vision-equipped Komatsu 930E earthmoving vehicles into production at the Mogalakwena Complex. The Kom-Vision technology is a significant step towards improving safety at the mine as it gives the truck operator a 360-degree bird’s eye view and significantly reduces the risks associated with a man-machine interface. The new system has an additional eight radars - over and above the current standard of front and rear radars - and six cameras that provide zero-metre visibility of the truck’s footprint. Mogalakwena Mine General Manager, Richard Cox says: “This technology sets a new benchmark. It improves our ability to integrate into future collision avoidance systems. In line with our strategy of FutureSmart Mining, it will generate close-to-real-time health and performance data that will support us in optimising our operations”. Anglo American Platinum’s safety strategy is based on four pillars – systems; people and behaviour; engineering solutions; and wellness in the workplace. The Komatsu trucks are included in the significant investments in engineering controls that the company has made to manage risks. Chris Griffith, CEO of Anglo American Platinum says: “Investing in this technology is a major step in increasing safety levels at our mines. We remain committed to our objective of eliminating fatalities with a zero-harm mindset. We put safety first and believe that every employee has the right to return home unharmed every day. "And we recognise that although we have made significant progress in improving safety over the years, there is still much to do. This technology will eliminate a number of risks and we look forward to benefitting from the improved safety and operational features of these trucks.” The case for innovation in mining remains highly compelling. To deliver the step-changes required to create a truly modern, safe and productive industry on a sustainable basis that society demands and that our customers expect, the industry must continue to evolve. Therefore, Anglo American continues to invest time working through how innovation can help the industry address its major challenges. Through FutureSmart Mining, the company has successfully drawn on the expertise of diverse stakeholders, including employees, partners in academia and civil society, peers in the mining and parallel industries. The company continues to focus on driving a more sustainable approach to mining through cutting-edge mining software and other technology-led innovations. Production manager Judd Barlow says: “We are proud to partner with Komatsu as this technology allows us to maximise capacity and safely deliver on our promises.” “What excites me most is that these two vehicles offer a fully integrated system that will deliver on our safety requirements, while reducing maintenance and downtime,” adds Cox.