Environmental and process technologies expert ENPROTEC celebrated its 10-year anniversary at its offices in Middelburg on Thursday and took the opportunity to share some of its milestone successes and achievements with its clients who were there to share in the celebrations, writes Laura Cornish. “Our company was founded on the ability to exploit and extract ultra-fine coal material but we’ve since then grown significantly and now offer the industry a range of minerals processing solutions, projects engineering and contract operations capabilities since then,” ENPROTEC MD Riekert Fourie said at the celebration. Stephan Opperman, General Manager,; Mornè Kruger, head of projects; Kwena Nong, business development manager and Jayson Jacobs, director of business development were also in attendance on the day and delivered interesting presentations on topics from business strategy to technologies and service offerings within the company's fields of expertise. It is this management team, combined with every employee in the company, who are so passionate and committed to the company and its values which will see it move successfully forward into the next decade. Today, the company has become recognised for its filtration and flotation expertise and offers an impressive track record in the field which includes 74 installed filters and 54 flotation cells which are all still in operation today. The company is also responsible for the maintenance and operation of 13 different sites’ filtration and flotation plants for clients – where every plant is achieving well above 90% availability, four of which are at 100% availability. Fourie took time to highlight during the event a number of milestone achievements the company has celebrated over the decade, “all which have impacted and changed the company in one way or another.” They include: “We have demonstrated our ability not only to apply technology, but do so in a practical way,” Fourie highlighted. ENPROTEC’s celebration was a well-attended event and well supported by the large majority of its client base – a true indication that its equipment and service delivery are valued by the industry. “Our success is a tribute to the collaboration from our industry and working closely together with our clients who have all contributed to our success,” Fourie concluded.