 Vibramech is South Africa’s largest manufacturer of vibrating equipment, designing and supplying customised vibrating solutions to match your exact screen, plant and process flow specifications.  Vibramech is South Africa’s largest manufacturer of vibrating mineral processing equipment. We engineer solutions for your unique mineral processing requirements. Our current installed base of over 8 000 pieces of equipment makes us the South African leader in market share, supplying almost 70% of the market with our renowned products. Our wide ranges of machines and screens are locally manufactured in Johannesburg and supported across the world with ongoing aftermarket service and support. Breakdown and emergency services are available to our clients throughout southern Africa and North America. Screens 
A range of Vibramech vibrating screens and Liwell screens, each uniquely designed to provide a robust and cost-effective screening solution. Grizzly Feeders 
Grizzly feeders with robust designs ensure even feed to primary crushers and remove fines. Grizzly bars are cast manganese, cast manganese – CrMo alloy or wear-resistant fabricated options. Tube Feeders 
Tube feeders are designed to provide a secure conveying solution for valuable ore. Vibramech tube feeders have various cross sections to suit the conveying length and feed capacity requirements. Pan Feeders 
Pan feeders are designed to provide an even, controllable material flow in arduous mining environments. Feeders are available in suspended or foot-mounted, low- or high-sided pan options. Drives 
Vibramech equipment is vibrator motor-, geared exciter- or oscillator-driven. We're the exclusive African and Middle Eastern distributor of URAS vibrator motors and also manufacture geared exciters under licence to Siebtechnik. Grease Tables 
Grease tables are an efficient diamond recovery solution and are available in various sizes. They are supplied with support stands and water boxes. Feed boxes and discharge chutes are available as optional extras.  for more information please visit our website here: https://www.vibramechglobal.com/ 