ASX-listed Oklo Resources will commence a US$5 million, 35 000 m drilling programme in mid-November, focused primarily on the company’s Dandoko project in west Mali. Mali – The six-month drilling programme will consist of diamond (DD), reverse circulation (RC) and aircore (AC) drilling, focused on Seko, Seko Extensions, the Dandoko Gold Corridor and Kouroufing. “With the wet season coming to an end we are eager to get drilling underway in west Mali. All results from the last campaign have been received and importantly data obtained from diamond drilling has enabled formative work on structural and geological modelling to assist in improved drill targeting for the upcoming field season. “With this new knowledge we look forward to seeing the positive results continue,” says Oklo Resources MD Simon Taylor. The Dandoko project is located within the Kenieba Inlier of western Mali and lies 30 km to the east of B2Gold’s 5.15 Moz Fekola project and 50 km to the south-southeast of Randgold Resource’s 12.5 Moz Loulo mine. The company currently holds about 500 km2 of highly prospective ground in this emerging world-class gold region. During the previous field season, drilling at Seko and within the Dandoko gold corridor delivered excellent results, including significant intercepts beyond known mineralisation at Seko (SK2, 20 m at 3.03g/t gold) and the discovery of Dabia (grades up to 16.0g/t gold) and Sory (grades up to 13.3g/t gold). Additionally, low cost reconnaissance auger drilling was again highly successful by outlining a 6 km long gold corridor at Oklo’s newly acquired Kouroufing project. Oklo’s approved drill programme for the upcoming 2019 field season consists of 35 000 m from a combination of AC, RC, DD drilling and approximately 25 000 m of low-cost shallow auger drilling. The budget for the programme is circa $5 million with 15% of the budget allocated to the cost effective auger drilling. Drilling will test the following targets. RC and DD drilling will continue to test for strike and depth extensions to known mineralisation including over 3000 m of DD drilling. The Sory and Dabia discoveries will be followed up with further RC and AC drilling whilst first pass AC drilling will target other anomalies previously outlined by reconnaissance auger drilling along the under-explored 12 km Dandoko gold corridor. Following the highly successful use of low-cost reconnaissance auger drilling to identify both the Dandoko and Kouroufing gold corridors, a further 25 000m of auger drilling is planned in regional exploration. Auger drilling will test for extensions to the newly identified 6 km gold corridor at Kouroufing which remains open to the north and south including potential extensions into the company’s Kossaya project