Since inception Nigeria Mining Week has received solid and enthusiastic industry support. Some of the key industry mining operators, event partners and technology and services providers who will be at Nigeria Mining Week have said this about the event:  Cyril Azobu, PwC Nigeria’s Mining Sector Leader and Head Consulting “With high expectations and willingness amongst key stakeholders to collaborate in driving growth, there is no better time to invest in unlocking the mining potential of Nigeria than now.” Aliyu Mamman, CEO, 3MGeo Resources “The Nigerian mining sector has the capacity to propel sub Saharan Africa to global leadership in key mineral production like iron ore, manganese, copper, nickel, gold and limestone.” Darryn Scheepers, Head of Africa, BARRON “BARRON is excited to introduce to the 3rd annual Nigeria Mining Week its BRAND-ABLE Solutions Business to mining blue chip organisations, with platforms offering a wide variety of canvasses and solutions that support and build their brands by assisting them to switch their brands ON.” Riaan van der Westhuizen, MD, Minutor “Nigeria is on the verge of a new dawn and has amazing blue-sky opportunities in the solid mineral industry: from IOCG deposits to hydrothermal and epithermal gold deposits, copper porphyries, sedimentary copper deposits, high grade battery minerals including lead, zinc, lithium and graphite to name but a few." Nere Teriba, MD, Kian Smith Trade and Co “We are excited about our work on developing and integrating the gold value chain. We have recently launched services as a gold trading firm offering services in purchasing and refining gold for our clients. We believe these services will be impactful for the development of the gold sector.” Fadi A. Ghazale, MD, AG Vision Mining Ltd “We are excited and looking forward to gaining a wider exposure. We want the local companies to know about our services and the global juniors to know that the Nigerian market already entails some exploration companies with an access to globally recognized experts. We should look at mining in Nigeria as a sustainable process. Listen to the experts, to those that have done it before.” Jeremy Moore, owner of Meridian Drilling “Meridian is excited to be working in Bauchi with a progressive and driven company such as Symbol Mining, which is leading the field in utilising up-to-date drilling and exploration techniques in Nigeria” • “We have acquired a number of licences, the majority of which are in Niger state, and are currently carrying out a detailed exploration programme”
- Martin O’Boyle, Director of PW Nigeria Ltd, silver sponsors. Tim Wither, CEO, Symbol Mining "We are building a reputable, safe and trusted mining company in Nigeria, and hope to raise awareness of Nigeria’s potential as a mineral resource producer.” Willy De Smedt, GM, DEM Nigeria “Next to oil, mining has high export potential offering a lot of opportunities to boost the Nigerian economy, attract foreign investors and opens sources of revenue for a wide variety of local operators.”