Drilling services and equipment supplier Boart Longyear’s MDR700 underground coring mobile drill rig is catching the eye of exploration drillers, mining house geologists and exploration managers alike. “The MDR700 delivers five distinct advantages that make it stand-out from other underground coring mobile drill rigs,” says Boart Longyear’s global product manager, Zac Strauss. The MDR700 is the first and only underground coring mobile drill rig with an on-board rod handler. The risk of hand and back injuries associated with handling rods is significantly reduced on the MDR700. The rod handler sets new standards for ease-of use, versatility, and most importantly, safety. The rod handler isolates the driller from the hazards of manual rod handling. The mobility of the new MDR700 is a time-saver when moving from hole-to-hole using an agile Manitou diesel-powered four-wheel drive carrier. In a study where the rig was moved 500 m, the average time to move the MDR700 rig from hole-to-hole proved to be 80% faster than a regular underground exploration rig owing to its multi-mode four wheel steering. The next generation design of the integrated positioner and turntable offers extremely wide drilling angles for greater productivity and impressive reach to make positioning and drilling a series of holes easier. The rig features sophisticated articulations with eight movable joints so you can drill 270° horizontally and vertically up to vertically down. The MDR700 also allows you to drill in a spherical manner without having to reposition the unit. The Drill Control Interface (DCi) provides semi-automation and a fully electronic interface to safely and efficiently operate both the rod handler and the drill. The DCi is a substantial step for increased safety on-site by moving the driller away from moving parts and hydraulic hoses – isolating the driller from the hazards. Set-up is quick and easy with the fully hydraulic positioning system and handheld remote controller. The MDR700 moves are faster and easier with the four-wheel drive diesel engine-powered Manitou carrier. Operating the MDR700 and the rod handler is smooth and easy when paired with the DCi. And the MDR700’s maintenance-friendly layout provides easy access for hydraulic servicing.