ASX-listed Vital Metals has identified a vanadium-titanium-magnetite, or VTM, exploration target at Tiebele, part of its Nahouri project in Burkina Faso. The company is planning to complete infill soiling sampling on the target to test the extent of the magnetic anomaly. “Based on the available exploration data, the VTM body is similar to projects in the Yilgarn craton (e.g. Canegrass or Windmurra), says Vital Metals MD Mark Strizek. “Based on the size of the magnetic anomaly, we have estimated a strike length of 1 500 m to 1 900 m at an average width of 50 m to 150 m for the anomalous rock body. The shape of the magnetic anomaly suggests a NW dip and if this was around 150 m then potentially there is a sizeable volume however, we will need drill testing to verify. “With the exploration season fast approaching in Burkina Faso, our next step is confirmatory geochemical sampling over the target to determine its potential as a drill target,” he says. Vital’s exploration team believes that historic mapping in the area is not accurate and does not reflect the underlying geophysics and geochemistry. Taking into account all available information to date, the anomalous rock body appears to be at the interface between ultramafic rocks to the west and mafic units to the east. All soil samples to date including historical samples have been analysed by ICP-AES following 4acid (near total) digestion. However, as no laboratory in Burkina Faso offers this service, Vital is planning to analyse follow-up soil samples using the company’s portable XRF tool currently in Ouagadougou. Vital will complete infill soil sampling over the complete strike length of the magnetic anomaly to delineate the geochemical signature of the underlying rock body and identify internal variations. The programme also plans to gather rock-chip samples if outcrop conditions allow. “Having capacity to analyse soil samples using our portable XRF provides Vital with the ability to move quickly to a potential scout drilling program without need to wait for the ICP-AES analysis,” says Strizek.