The following is required to apply for a Prospecting Right in South Africa as stipulated by the Department of Mineral Resources: Provide a plan as comtemplated in Regulation 2(2) of the Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act (MPRDA). Full particulars of the prospecting work programme contemplated in regulation 7 of the MPRDA. Provide detailed documents proving that the application has access to both technical ability and financial resources compatible with the prospecting work programme that are readily available or how they will be provided for. This will enable the applicant to carry out the prospecting activities in terms of the prospecting work programme and to mitigate and rehabilitate relevant environmental impact satisfactorily. Provide a list of existing rights and permits held by the applicant to be compiled in table form. The form should indicate the region, the location with regard to the land name and the existing right or permit number for each mineral or minerals. An amount of R500 application fee, is payable as specified in Regulation 75(1) (b) of the MPRDA. An individual applicant must attach a certified copy of their identity document. A certified copy of the certificate issued by the Companies and Intellectual Property Commission (CIPC). All applicants are required to apply for the necessary environmental authorisation in terms of the National Environmental Management Act (NEMA), 2008 and the National Environmental Waste management Act (NEWMA), 2008 in respect of listed activities that have been triggered by application in terms of the MPRDA, 2002 as amended. NOTE: NEMA PRICING SCHEDULE RANGES FROM R2 000 - R10 000  Building 2 C c/o Meintjies and Francis Baard Streets Sunnyside Pretora  enquiries@dmr.gov.za samradonline@dmr.gov.za www.dmr.gov.za   78 De Korte Street c/o De Korte and De Beer Braamfontein Johannesburg  Save Ways Crescent Centre c/o OR Tambo and Mandela Road Witbank  9459 The Strip building 314 Stateway and Bok Streets Welkom  Old Premier House 101 Dorp Street Polokwane  Durban Bay House 333 Anton Lembede Street Durban  Pier 14 Shopping Centre 444 Govan Mbeki Avenue Port Elizabeth  PRD Building 96 Sutherland Road Mthatha  Ascension House c/o Riebeeck and Lower Burg Streets Cape Town  Perm Building 65 Phakamile Street c/o Mabitja Street Kimberley  Hopley Centre c/o Van der Stel and Van Riebeeck Streets Springbok  Vaal University of Technology Building c/o Corrie de Keck Klerksdorp 2570  Propcor Building 254A Bayers Naude Street Rustenburg 